London 's position at the forefront of global finance is being threatened by a lack of investment in talent , technology and innovation , according to a new report from Level39 . The survey of Level39 's 900-strong community found that most think a shortage of talent is the biggest threat to banks and financial institutions in the UK ( 19% ) , followed by a lack of investment in research and development ( 17% ) and digital disruption ( 15% ) . International competition ( 15% ) was also highlighted as a major risk to the capital 's financial sector . Financial technology ( 26% ) , machine learning ( 22% ) and data analytics ( 20% ) were the three verticals expected to receive the most investment across the tech sector in 2017 . 30% of those surveyed said UK banks and institutions urgently need to invest in cyber security in order to " regain a competitive advantage " , yet only 13% thought that it would outperform other verticals for investment this year . Data science ( 28% ) and financial inclusion ( 17% ) were also cited as areas in need of funding . 90% of respondents agreed that if banks work together with London 's tech community to overcome obstacles and invest in these areas , the capital will have an ecosystem capable of " producing a critical mass of globally successful tech start - ups " . Ben Brabyn , head of Level39 , commented : " London is a global financial powerhouse , but its dominance in financial services is under existential threat . Failing to address these billion - dollar problems will send the industry hurtling towards a cliff - edge . The time for spectators is over - banks need to open their chequebooks and invest in the tech startups offering the innovations they need . " Investment from the world 's largest financial services IT budgets will realise the potential of billion - dollar ideas in fintech , cyber security and financial inclusion . By connecting ambitious individuals in finance with ambitious entrepreneurs , London will send a clear message to the global finance community - this is the home of innovation and billion - dollar opportunities . "