After a wild night out in the city , nothing beats being able to whip out your phone and quickly order your own personal driver to take you straight home to your front door . Ridesharing has rapidly evolved into a social norm over the last few years , as it 's become no longer frowned upon to be seen stepping inside a stranger 's vehicle , complete with dark tinted windows , at night . While ridesharing industry leader Uber 's booming popularity has made it a household name and a favourite success story for budding entrepreneurs , recent news has shown the flip side of the coin . Between claims of a sexist company culture and shady methods of overcoming regulatory hurdles , another issue putting the company in the spotlight is surge pricing , a problem which has , like the others , been floating in the background for some time . A new player in the ridesharing place looking to tackle the issue of sure pricing to benefit both drivers and passengers is Hi Oscar . The Perth - based startup wants to combine " all the thing drivers and users of rideshare apps want " into one app , offering a more transparent , fair marketplace that diverges from others ' less than stellar track record in terms of safety , dealing with sexual harassment , and surge pricing . For those who haven't heard of the issue before , surge pricing abuse , in essence , occurs when drivers forcibly create ' surge areas ' - spaces which are subject to Uber 's higher multiplying surge fees . These spaces traditionally emerge when an area holds a low number of drivers , a feature which can be abused when multiple drivers agree to switch their apps off and cheat the system into thinking there are none around , hence increasing the price for passengers . Hi Oscar cofounder Daniel Broughton had come across the issue - along with a bundle of other problems rideshare drivers were facing - when he was conducting research for another project . " People talk about things on forums where things like that are openly discussed , " he said . " There are a lot of honest drivers out there that do n't like surge and wo n't be part of it , but there is colluding from a driver 's perspective that I 've heard about . It impacts riders too , since they 'll agree on a pickup zone yet when they call the driver , they might pull the pickup location inside a surge zone if they 're nearby it . " To gain further insight into price surging abuse and the wider issues rideshare drivers face firsthand , Startup Daily spoke to Linda * - who spoke on the condition of anonymity - an Uber driver currently operating in Perth . Linda began driving for the platform early last year , with the on - off style of the job fitting perfectly into her lifestyle . Although her time as a driver started out smoothly , she soon discovered " colluding " occurring between drivers to surge prices in areas around Perth . " It 's a rort , and Uber knows that , " she said . " When I first started driving for Uber , they told me to go to the surge areas after I complained and told them I was n't making the amount I was told I would . I 'd drive towards [ surge areas ] on my map , but they would fade out as I approach it . So the advice was then turn off your app as you 're approaching . " Linda quickly discovered that some of her fellow drivers had been working together to make prices surge . Some drivers later approached her asking if she 'd like to join in , to which she declined due to the ethical inappropriateness . " It 's unfair to the riders where they 're put in the situation where they have to pay quadruple the amount to go home . I just do not go to surge areas now , and a lot of other drivers I know do the same , " she said . Realising this , Broughton developed Hi Oscar 's system without surge prices , as a way to benefit passengers . There are no extra charges for the different types of vehicles on the platform either , meaning riders do n't have to pay extra if they require a larger car for their travel . Broughton did say , however , that the startup would examine the possibility of adding weekend fees in the future , although it 's not currently on the cards . Also looking to empower riders with choice , the Hi Oscar app allows users to pick which driver they want by tapping on a car on the Google Maps interface . Cars are also coloured based on the driver 's gender , allowing riders to choose a driver they feel safest with . This feature , in combination with a number of others , has pushed Linda to begin the transition from driving for Uber to driving for Hi Oscar . " Occasionally as a female driver I 've had to pull over and ask someone to exit the car for inappropriate behaviour and sexual interactions , " she said . " [ Then ] , at the end of the day , those riders can still rate you , and can rate you low , especially if you kick them out of the car . Then once that rating 's in there , it 's in the cogs and wo n't go away . " Addressing this rating problem and its impact on drivers , Hi Oscar has developed a rating system using " thumbs up , thumbs down " , to combat a few outlier ratings damaging a driver 's profile . Yet , for Linda , one of the largest draws to Hi Oscar was the deduction of GST from each transaction , meaning drivers do n't have to pay their own tax on the side . During her time at Uber , Linda said she had initially been told she would make between $ 45 to $ 50 an hour , making the paying of GST less of a financial burden , although she found that was n't the case . " It was really $ 20 to $ 35 dollars an hour , without taking into consideration car lease , GST , and so on . They did n't really mention GST either , you have to find out about it in a roundabout way , " she said . Told by the company that their lawyers were working on tackling the legislation for rideshare drivers , Linda took the initiative in her own hands and received a ruling from the tax department for herself , saying that GST would be deducted out of Uber 's driver fees . Other drivers , however , are still subject to the current legislation . " Uber hasn't really tackled it since it has no real impact on them , " she said . Coming across this problem in his research and discovering a lot of drivers were " unhappy " , Broughton ensured that Hi Oscar includes GST . Of course , this means a slight increase in the cost of the ride to compensate for the amount deducted from the driver 's earnings . Although riders have to pay more , Broughton said he 's confident the platform will be able to draw customers away from other ridesharing competitors , especially if there 's a strong driver network backing Hi Oscar . " The appetite in Australia is that most riders feel like fares are too cheap , in fact really low . [ Plus ] in this economy , people are choosing homegrown . People are supporting the boutique outlets even if they cost a little more , " he said . Each driver that signs up must hold an omni - bus licence , as a way to ensure they 're covered in an accident . The startup has been focusing on growing its driver network , with Broughton saying the business is onboarding 10 to 15 new drivers each week , many of which are moving from existing rideshare platforms . As the next move for the business , Broughton said Hi Oscar will progress into the Northern Territory as it becomes more " legislated " by installing stricter safety rulings around rideshare drivers . Beyond that , the startup wants to grow as " quickly as possible " while retaining its fundamental qualities , a task which Broughton acknowledged as tough , to say the least . " Let 's be honest , it 's a David and Goliath story . We need all the feedback we can get , so it 's really encouraging when you get it and know you 're heading in the right direction . And I 'm confident we can get there . " * Linda is not the real name of the source contacted .