In the business world , information has replaced industrialization and brought inescapable competition to the market . Now , companies have no other choice but to thrive at what they do and be ready to walk the extra mile . The power has shifted from businesses to customers , and unless they 're happy , it 's next to impossible to boost the conversion rate .   In case you 've just launched a new startup , you have to try every bit possible to convert as many leads into paid subscriptions as possible . This is the only way to survive in today 's cut - throat competition . Here are five such tips that will help you keep your customers happy , and boost conversion rate in a hassle - free manner . You can not simply expect your social media executive to address customer grievance issues and handle them properly . Even if you force them to do so , they wo n't be able to serve properly . Since you 're in the market to build a brand that can last an entire lifetime , do n't try to find shortcuts . Hire a separate customer service team which does n't let any customer query go unresolved . Make every possible effort to ensure that your customers do n't feel cheated at any point . A customer can know your brand 's worth and effectiveness only if they try your products and services himself . Unless that happens , you can not expect much . So , your objective should be to make customers try your products / services . Since the present era belongs to the information age , there is no chance you can run a business without having a website or mobile app . Make certain arrangements to ensure that whenever users browse your site , they become tempted to use your services right away . A beautiful landing page can help you do that . You can convert your website 's home page into a landing page , create a professional logo and use a fully optimized theme to increase conversion rate in a hassle - free manner . From Amazon to Facebook , all the major companies use landing pages to collect leads and convert them into customers . You can also do the same and get desired results . Have you ever thought that last time after you searched for a smartphone or furniture piece on Google , you started seeing the ads revolving around the same product on Facebook , Twitter , and Instagram ? Do you think it 's a miracle or some data hack ? No , it 's not . It 's just an attempt of Google to ensure that you get your desired product in a hassle - free manner .   Convenience is all that matters . The better you serve your customers , the more convenient it will be ; and the more convenient it is , the higher are the chances of them buying your products / services . If you want to improve the conversion rate , then reduce the customer efforts as much as possible . Along with the proper listing of products on your website , create a detailed FAQ page and answer every possible doubt that customers may have . Moreover , provide them more than one mediums ( call , email , live chat ) to connect with customer support team to ensure that they do n't panic if something does n't go according to their expectations . The growing reach of digital media has given users the power of expression . Believe it or not , but they like it this way . The more empowered they feel , the more time they spend on any particular site or mobile app . This is one of the reasons why sites like Facebook , Twitter , Quora , etc . get insane amount of traffic every day . Users want to be on these platforms because they know their voice will get heard . You can reverse engineer this process and use it to increase your conversion rate . Whenever users head to a good e - commerce site for any purchase , they first collect information about how effective the customer feedback support system of that site is . Their objective is to ensure that if something does n't go according to the expectations , they can simply reach out to someone and share their pain ( and get their queries resolved ) . You can give them what they want and boost your conversion rate . Improve your customer feedback system , patiently resolve their queries and get desired results . The only reason a user shares his personal email ID with you is that he trusts you and your products , and somewhat interested in getting relevant updates from your side on a regular interval . Do n't prove him wrong by sending spam emails every single day . Email opt - ins are used ineffectively by most online retailers . Be the change and use your email list to build a community of trusted customers . When you share updates that really matter to customers ( and not you ) , you are likely to get a better response from them . Keep this point in mind and forge ahead accordingly . Besides , you can also make use of social media promotion , lucrative offers from time to time , effective ad campaigns and many other strategies as per your location and niche . Read more business tips here on Tech . Co   