The Australian not - for - profit ( NFP ) sector is increasingly adopting new technology to go about its work , its innovation chops rising nine percent over the last 12 months to 63.3 in the 2017 NFP Innovation Index . The Index , which measures an organisation 's capabilities across areas including technology , internal and external collaboration , their openness of culture and vision , and stakeholder centricity , was compiled by digital fundraising platform GiveEasy , with support from Australia Post , Westpac , and the Australian Graduate School of Management ( AGSM ) . Jonas Tobias , CEO of GiveEasy , said NFPs have shifted from simply trying to keep up with innovation to actually embracing and embedding innovative practices into their organisations . " NFPs are now morphing into digital businesses , as the analogue approach is slow and time consuming . The digital economy speeds up the process of bringing new products to market , providing access to a wider donor community and new opportunities for collaboration , " he said . In transitioning into ' digital businesses ' , the Index found NFPs are buying into online trends to expand their existing communities and reach new audiences , embracing the likes of online marketing and digital fundraising platforms , and exploring digital collaboration opportunities . The top fundraising strategies among the high innovators are donations via the organisation 's website , fundraising events , email campaigns , and peer to peer sites . Innovation in the area of stakeholder centricity also saw a particularly high jump , from a score of 50.7 in last year 's Index to 62.2 , as organisations come to understand they must do more to put their partners , donors , and customers at the heart of what they do . " As NFPs exist to serve their beneficiaries , improved stakeholder focus is great news . Highly innovative NFPs are collaborating more with their communities , employees , volunteers and beneficiaries . Increasingly the service experience is more approachable , more human , which matches the public perception of the sector , " Tobias said . However , an area requiring more work is that of rewarding and recognising employees , with just two percent of employees surveyed stated they feel comfortable enough to question the status quo , and 10 percent feeling that taking informed risks is encouraged . The most innovative NFPs , according to the Index , are the Cure Brain Cancer Foundation , Movember Foundation , and Cerebral Palsy Alliance , while the top innovators as voted by the community are Thankyou , Movember , and Beyondblue . Alongside these older NFPs , a growing number of social enterprise startups are emerging around Australia . To help the community further develop , the Victorian Government earlier this year released a Social Enterprise Strategy , announcing $ 5 million in funding to further increase the impact of and innovation in the state 's social enterprise sector , build business capacity and skills , and improve market access . With over 5,000 social enterprises already operating in Victoria and employing more than 75,000 people , Robin Scott , Victorian Minister for Finance , said , " We want to encourage more social enterprises into the market by giving the government greater access to their goods and services . " Addressing the aim of increasing impact and innovation , the government 's strategy initiatives include ' opening doors for social enterprises ' , that is , ensuring that it is adequately engaging with the sector , ensuring its various programs are open to social enterprises and that relevant information is available to them . The need to equip entrepreneurs in the NFP or social enterprise space with a digital tools was highlighted in a report produced by the Bankwest Foundation last month . Having followed 10 Western Australian social enterprises for 12 months , report author Dr Chris Mason of Swinburne University , found that while these entrepreneurs are keen and quick to learn , they struggle in the areas of securing external finance , retaining staff , and adapting to market changes . With these organisations small , many entrepreneurs found it difficult to dedicate time and resources to implementing systems that would able them to effectively report on their financial and social performance , which in turn meant investors or potential partners had little information to go off when considering whether to invest or collaborate . Mason said , " If we could overcome this hurdle it would help these businesses communicate better with potential investors , help them secure funding and help give them a competitive edge in applying for grants and tenders . "   