When trying to get a startup off the ground , a lot time and effort goes into developing the product and reaching the customer . So much so that founders often forget about the most important part of the company : the team . And without a solid team behind you , you 're going to have trouble making waves in your industry . It 's no secret that a strong and dedicated team is the key to growing a successful business , but building that team can be challenging . But if you follow some important lessons about hiring , you 'll be set up for success in no time . When you 've got a small team , the process of looking for an employee can take a lot of man - hours , which distracts you from working on the product itself . Eventually , you 'll start to view the hiring process as a distraction . Clearly , this is n't the right mindset while seeking out the best talent , so you 'll need to come up with an alternative method . Instead of waiting until you have a need , create a pipeline of great candidates that you can stay in touch with . Once you 've done this , you 'll always searching for candidates , even when you do n't have a direct need at that moment . This way , you can build relationships and improve the odds of making the best hire . By building a prospect list , you 'll essentially eliminated the usual matrix that exists where you have to be actively hiring for a position and the candidate has to be in job - search mode . The pipeline allows you to explore future candidates that we might not need right away and who sometimes might not be in the job market yet . Outsourcing might seem like a cheap and quick solution for bootstrapped startups , but it often comes at a price . Consultants and outsourced work often end up having a narrow scope . This may work for a few projects here and there , but when growing a company , it is n't sustainable . The man - hours alone spent finding the right person for a freelance job can quickly add up . Combine that with onboarding talent for the project and building rapport and trust , only to have do it all over again when the next project comes along takes up a ton of man hours . In the days of telecommuting and conference calls , it has become commonplace to outsource work , but it can also be hard to develop a team atmosphere from halfway around the world . In terms of hiring the right people , there is also something to be said about hiring for the right positions . I 've talked to other founders who struggle to put together an executive team before actually hiring for the departments . While this might work for some , it 's better to holding off on hiring at upper levels when you can grow the necessary talent from within . By hiring junior employees , you can groom them for future management roles . This is n't just about saving money on salaries . It 's also about not getting too big for your britches . The six months you might spend searching for the perfect executive team member can be spent developing the product alongside a junior person who may , one day , become that executive . And who 's more likely to stay invested in the growth of your company : a new executive or a team member who already believes in the company and wants to see it succeed ? This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .