Recently , Mike Duboe , Head of Growth at Tilt and Jareau Wade , Commerce Platform Manager at Pinterest lead a Growth Study Hall at the Galvanize San Francisco campus . The Study Hall began with a summary of the early days of Tilt when Mike and Jareau were both on the growth team . They shared how Tilt was seeing rapid growth - about 20 percent per each month . But where was this growth coming from ? Mike and Jareau focused on what factors contributed to their most successful campaigns but quickly realized , that in fact , they were n't actually creating growth through their campaigns . Here are three lessons they learned along the way : There was no clear way to understand what was contributing to the success and growth of each campaign . They were measuring the campaigns that got the most press as the " successful ones " although those were n't the campaigns creating growth . The lesson they learned was to hire a rockstar analytics person who can help identify via tracking analytics why and how growth is happening in order to be able to create a repeatable pattern . Tilt created a system to process incoming feature requests to gain a clear sense of which customers actually matter . Jareau emphasized , " start by prioritizing which users you 're listening to louder than others , and get in the room with your target customer " . If you 're attempting to try to solve every customer request , you 'll end up building products for the " wrong customers " . By creating a system with specific dimensions you can focus on creating predictable outcomes . Once you 've created that system , you can expand your scope . If you do n't have an Ambassador Program , you might be missing out on engaging your power users . Before you adopt this program , first , ask yourself , does it make sense for your product to have an ambassador program ? Tilt gave themselves a 48-hour window to brainstorm on what they could do to add value for their ambassadors . Their goal was to acquire 15 ambassadors and reward them by allowing them to become part of the Tilt community ( social capital ) . They decided to create a simple landing page to appeal to their primary demographic , college students , and build a sense of social capital on campus . They were able to use the Ambassador Program to scope out what was actually happening on campuses that were contributing to their organic growth . Ultimately Tilt was able to engineer a way to get power users to share their product and create some of their best organic growth for free . Mike and Jareau did a great job of addressing both B2B and B2C growth sharing challenges and lessons learned along the way . Attendees saw immense value in the experiences of the early days of Tilt , what Mike and Jareau would have approached differently , and what they would have done exactly the same . This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .