Kairos Society has announced this year 's Kairos 50 , a collection of the 50 most innovative seed - stage companies in the world . The Kairos Society is dedicated to empowering young entrepreneurs to innovate in areas where others have remained unsuccessful and tackle global issues to make this a better world . In the past four years alone , the top 25 Kairos companies have raised a total of over $ 600 million in investment capital and are collectively valued at over $ 3 billion . Kairos Society also announced its monetary prizes to three different companies , which were funded by Obvious Ventures , Tim Draper Associates and Tony Chen . From a tech - driven baby food company to a 3D printing platform affordable enough to leave your wallet intact , the Kairos 50 represent a whole range of innovations in a ton of different fields . Check out the 50 companies changing the world and the innovations they are creating below : Easier access for students to ask questions in the classroom , form study groups , and navigate their way through the education system . Founders : Luke Sophinos Zero cost , better learning outcomes . By giving birth to Exponential Education , SchoolHouse seeks to solve a historical problem : Scarcity in education . Founders : Pol Ricart , Hector Ramon Jimenez , Lorenzo Arribas In today 's world , it is hard to find help in college courses . With Knack , a student can request help from a peer for any course without having to wait for a TA or emailing the professor . Founders : Samyr Qureshi , David Stoker , Shawn Doyle , Dennis Hansen 3D printing is a rapidly growing market that many common people are curious about and would like to get their hands on . In order to make this technology available at every home , Skriware aims to solve three fundamental problems this industry is facing : accessibility , affordability and practicality . Founders : Karol Gornowicz , Jakub Zaborowski , Damian Wierbilowicz , Stefan Stankiewicz StockViews is building the infrastructure for asset management industry , in order to solve to bubbles , crashes and deliver long term outperformance . Founder : Sandeep Bathina , Thomas Beevers   Benben GH seeks to solve long turnover times in delivering financial assistance and borrowers ( property owners and business owners ) , who are left bearing the brunt of bottlenecks in the form of high - risk- high - interest loans and high - risk land transactions . Founder : Emmanuel Noah Wallarm finds new ways to protect Internet - facing applications and APIs from new bulnerabilities , attacks , and critical flaws within the system . Founders : Stepan Ilyn , Anastasia Novikova , Ivan Novikov   Toucan provides the 200 M rising middle - class that have no financial credit inclusion and face a huge hassle simply trying to leapfrog into the online era of commerce access to credit cards . Founders : Elvin Zhang , Loh Zheng Rong , Xheng Rong , Beejay Urzo Identity has plenty of applications - payments , login , federal KYC , and anything that requires the proof that you are who you are . Founder : Filip Victor Wasteless created an infrastructure to monitor lives inventory , which prevents grocers from creating waste , and out of stock and over stock products . Founder : Ben Biron , Oded Omer Brainbuild empowers all 460,000 NCAA athletes with the knowledge necessary to build healthy eating habits , and fundamentally change the way institutions take care of their athletes . Founders : Joseph J. Lam , Brendan O ' Brien Read our interview with Ankur Jain and Alex Fiance of Kairos Society on Moonshots for Social Good Agrosmart aides in the decision - making of irrigation since 70 percent of world 's fresh water is used in irrigation and about half of it is wasted because farmers do n't really know when to do it or how much water to use . Founders : Mariana Vasconcelos , Raphael Garcez , Thales Nicoleti Agrilyst is a platform that helps indoor farm operator use data to make more profitable production decisions . We track and analyze all farm data in one place , enabling growers to optimize plant performance and reduce operating expenses . Founders : Allison Kopf , Jason Camp   Data - driven , tech - enabled , and delicious , Little Spoon combines nutrition with convenience to provide the best option for both baby and moms . Founders : Lisa Barnett , Ben Lewis , Michelle Muller , Angela Vranich The single platform for all private social networking BlackSMS addresses the fundamental need for intimacy and privacy . Founder : Tyler Weitzman Great Salespeople Are Made , Not Born . Using data from your sales team 's calls , Clover helps you implement highest ROI techniques throughout your sales force . Founder : Daria Evdokimova Diamond is creating one personal interface to find all files across all platforms / devices - aiming to be the go - to portal between humans and machines Founder : Leander Lee , Pierre Arys Mya is a staffing automation startup creating tools to help recruiters and hiring managers efficiently manage high volume recruitment campaigns . As a virtual recruiter it prescreens candidates , educates applicants , answers questions , determines eligibility and schedules onsite interviews . Founder : Eyal Grayevsky , James Maddox SquadRun designs and runs customized workflows for large - scale business operations using a combination of machine learning and human intelligence to manage and optimize the end - to - end process flow to achieve speed , scale , accuracy and cost efficiency . Founders : Ribabh Ladha , Kanika Jain , Apurv Agrawal , Vikas Gulati Pavlov aggregates all the interactions a customer has with your business into one place and provides interfaces for customer success agents to consume that information . Founder : Alexander Kern , Nikhil Srinivasan GetLinks bridges the biggest tech talents community in Asia with opportunities in Innovative companies building the future of work in Asia and beyond . Founders : Pichaya Srifar , Polpat Songtamjitti , Djoann Fal , Keenan Kwok Wiser is a service - led company that offers employer branding and graduate recruitment . Founders : Ari Ratnakumar , Finian O ' Kane , Ben Buffone , Omar Habbal   Ranomics is improving the understanding of human genetics . Founder : Cathy Tie Ourotech removes the trial and error process of cancer treatment by testing which drugs work best on patient tumor samples outside of their body and giving them the right treatment the first time . Founder : Duleeka Ranatunga , William Lin Desktop Genetics is a bioinformatics company specializing in CRISPR sgRNA design for cell line engineering and cell therapy . Founders : Edward Perello , Victor Dillard , Riley Doyle Eligo , an MIT - Rockefeller spinoff , has created the next - generation of programmable CRISPR bio therapeutics to selectively eradicate antibiotic resistant bacteria and engineer the microbiome . Founder : Dr. David Bikard , Dr. Xavier Duportet , Prof . Luciano Marraffini , Prof Timothy Lu Stasis rescues the 11 million under - monitored patients around the world with their cloud - connected vitals monitoring system . Founders : Dinesh Seemakurty , Michael Maylahn Neolight developed Skylife , an at - home neonatal phototherapy treatment that will provide the safest and most efficient treatment of infant jaundice . The company is developing a hypothermia treatment device to help at - risk infants with low birth weight . Founders : Sivakumar Palaniswany , Vivek Kopparthi , Chase Garrett   Read more about startups heating up in Phoenix    The most effective and responsive mental health professional in your pocket , 24/7 On - Demand mental health help . With Sibly , it reduces the cost for help and gives you someone to speak to about what is going on in your life at a very low cost . Founders : Mohammad Al Qadi , Omar Aleisa , Paula Wilbourne Founders : Peeyush Shrivastava , Vineet Erasaia , Emmanuel Setegn , Chandan Srivastava Neurescue(tm ) seeks to help save people with cardiac arrest and hemorrhage . Founders : Habib Frost It is estimated that only 50 - 60 percent of patients take injectavle therapies properly . Quio is designed to be taken long - term and control chronic disease for years . Founders : Alexander Dahmani , Jared Schwartzentruber Massively scalable genetic data analysis for Pharma and Biotech companies . Founders : Taner Dagdelen , John Dagdelen Dyndrite allows people to draw things that were previously impossible . Founder : Harshil Goel , Plus 4 Co - Founders Synapse Technology automates the detection of dangerous and illegal objects passing through x - ray checkpoints , applicable to government TSA and commercial security installations . Founders : Bruno Faviero , Simanta Gautam , Ian Cinnamon   Apis Cor provides a kind mobile construction 3D printing technology , which allows mass use of additive technologies directly on construction sites and can compete with traditional methods of construction . The printer prints a whole building directly on site by printing walls and partitions . Founders : Boris Bliznioukov , Nikita Cheniuntai , Konstantin Nefedez By using Maidbot 's systems , hotel operators will see an increase in profitability , healthier and happier staff and higher guest satisfaction . Founder : Micah Green The Engineering Company 's next generation engineering technology , built from the ground up at Imperial College , automates the design development work bringing a step change in the cost of development . Founders : Parikshat Singh , Patrick Moniz Nelumbo was formed to solve this problem at the root cause . The founders invented and developed the world 's first Droplet Ejection coatings , or materials capable of making water droplets jump off a surface while still microscopic . This is the final frontier of water repellency , and Nelumbo is using it to enable a double - digit performance and cost advantage in a market desperate for differentiation . Founders : Liam Berryman , Lance Brockway , David Walther Speechify is deep learning powered text - to - speech education software . It aims to aid people with learning differences in reading , and to provide a faster way for every person to be more productive by creating instantaneous audiobooks of any text . Founder : Cliff Weitzman Wildfire sends you real - time safety alerts - like Waze for safety . Founders : Vinay Ramesh , Hriday Kemburu , Jay Patel Hype Labs seeks to achieve a vision where we can interact with the world around us and vice versa despite various technologies . It provides new types of connectivity to help offload current networks and bring new user experiences that were impossible before . Founder : Carlos Lei Santos , Andre Francisco A graph database is an optimized database technology to store , manage , and access interconnected data to answer complex questions . MemGraph is bridging this gap by bringing the performance of graph databases built by tech giants to every enterprise . Founder : Dominik Tomicevic , Marko Budiselic   Fluid AI is solving the problem of humanizing digital interaction in the real world . Using Fluid AI 's artificial intelligence technology offers customers a much more engaging and effective experience whether they be in a store , bank or in a hotel lobby . Founder : Raghav Aggarwal , Abhinav Aggarwal Augmented reality is going to fundamentally change how we interact with technology . The problem today is that there is no accessible platform for developers and innovators to start actually exploring how AR will fit into our everyday lives . Mira Labs is working to lower all the significant barriers to entry for AR . Founders : Joseph May , Ben Taft , Matt Stern , Montana Reed Shipsy Shipsy provides real - time alerts to help operations teams move from a reactive to pro - active approach . The system tells them what is going wrong , based on the KPIs they have set , and they act on the most important matters in a prioritized manner . The solution makes lives of operations teams easier , and improves service levels without impacting costs . Founders : Soham Choksi , Dhruv Agrawal , Himanshu Gupta , Sahil Arora Talkin ' Things ' technology is a unique solution for protecting customers against refilling . Many industries face a problem of counterfeiters who refill genuine packaging with unauthorized products . Losses are forecast to be $ 2.3 trillion by 2018 . Founders : Dariusz Konik , Marcin Pilarz Millions of small shop keepers across the developing world are currently forced to source their own products independent of any distributor or manufacturer . This leads to increased costs and limited availability of products for billions of emerging consumers . Founders : Daniel Yu , Josh Middleman Starsky Robotics are robots that drive trucks . The founders figured out a clever way to make it possible with existing technology , have already moved freight for money and are hoping to take over the American trucking industry . Founders : Kartik Tiwari , Stefan Seltz - Axmacher STORD is positioning ourselves as a tech - driven warehousing company that is not bound by geographical reach . Utilizing partner facilities , STORD is able to add bottom - line revenue to small businesses across the country by giving them access to new customers and large , national contracts . Founders : Sean Henry , Jacob Boudreau Read more about startups changing the world here at Tech . Co