The Berlin - based high - tech startup R3 Communications just closed a seven - digit pre - series A financing round with Creathor Venture and the VC Fonds Technologie Berlin ( managed by IBB Beteiligungsgesellschaft ) . Founded in July 2015 , R3 Communications develops ultra - reliable real - time communication systems that are predominantly used in industry 4.0 and IoT applications . R3 's proprietary technology called EchoRing(tm ) circumvents the problems of common wireless communication systems ( deficient transmission reliability , latency , and co - existence ) . It supersedes the expensive , inflexible and complex use of cables in a vast number of scenarios . First cooperation agreements with well - known industry corporations have already been reached . Dr. Mathias Bohge , the founder and managing director at R3 Communications explains : " With factories becoming smart and flexible , tethered communication will quickly reach the boundaries of functionality . At the same time , existing wireless communication solutions are not ready to take over , as their reliability and latency performance does not suffice industry requirements . Therefore , the need for reliable wireless communication systems that cope with today 's real - time challenges will constantly rise . " Today , Berlin electronics company Schleicher Electronic already bases its radio product development on EchoRing(tm ) technology . Florian Bonanati , also managing director at R3 Communications adds : " Moreover , we have secured promising cooperation projects with worldwide market leaders in the industrial automation sector as well as in the automotive and aviation industry . With Creathor and IBB Beteiligungsgesellschaft on board we have now the possibility to speed things up while making our technology ready for the market . " Dr. Gert Kohler , Managing Partner at Creathor Venture , comments : " We are convinced of R3 Communications ' innovative solution and see great potential for diverse industrial application areas where transfer rate and absolute reliability is of paramount importance , especially in automation , but also in connected vehicles of all kind . We believe that Germany will lead the way when it comes to the development of intelligent industry applications . R3 Communications is well on the way to becoming a very important player in this segment . " The R3 - Reliable Realtime Radio Communications GmbH ( R3 Communications ) was founded in 2015 as a spin - off from two leading European engineering universities . The company 's focus is on research , development , production and sales / distribution of ultra - reliable realtime wireless communication systems and solutions . Current research and development activities include internet - of - things / industry4.0 Smart Factory applications , as well as automotive and aerospace scenarios . In order to learn more about R3 and its founders , check out the video below . It shows a pitch of the R3 founders regarding their EchoRing . The pitch was recorded by Startup TV , an awesome online TV channel about German startups .  