Regardless of industry , connecting with customers is one of the greatest challenges that businesses face . This is particularly difficult within a competitive market , where it can be difficult for a consumer to separate each brand beyond their logo and tagline .     To help make their mark on a customer , it 's become the norm for businesses to send direct emails out thanking patrons for their time , signup , or purchase . More often than not , however , these ' personal ' emails are nothing more than an automated block of text which end up at the bottom of a customer 's third email address amongst a pile of dozens of others just like it .   Bonjoro is a mobile app looking to renew the way businesses tackle engagement by allowing them to send quick , personal video messages directly to their customers . The Sydney - based startup wants to be the driving force behind replacing text emails as the formal method businesses use to connect with customers , instead helping them create a more engaging experience . Considering personalised videos are undoubtedly a more engaging medium for a customer to view than text , Bonjoro allows businesses to record a personal video message addressing a client or customer before sending it to their email address . Speaking on the relevance of the video medium in forming a strong relationship between brand and customer , Bonjoro 's founder Matthew Barnett explained that consumers are past the lack of personalisation within automated text emails . " People are moving beyond automation while the online space is getting to the stage where anything you buy or do comes with competitors . So it 's all about personalisation and building a relationship with a team or brand , because that 's something that sticks , " said Barnett . " People love relationships , so taking the time to engage with them on video goes a long way . " Barnett 's ideas on personalising the business - to - consumer ( B2C ) relationship comes from experience , as the entrepreneur ran into obstacles when attempting to engage clients within his first startup , Verbate . The business , which provides an online platform where users can conduct video surveys , has attracted an international user base since its launch in 2012 . Barnett said that when users would sign up for the platform he would send them a " thank you and welcome " email , but found these messages were n't pulling in high response rates . Using a hack inbuilt into Slack , the Verbate team developed a private method of receiving a notification when a new customer signed up and responding to them with a short video . " It was something we only used internally , but it tripled our response rates overnight . It got to a stage where every week a customer expressed interest in using the service itself , so we went on to built a closed beta , " said Barnett Bonjoro launched its open beta app on the Android and iOS store during December last year , allowing users to connect any CRM software to the platform after they 've created an account under a business ' email address . Whenever a new customer signs up to the business , the user will receive a notification on the app which will display as much information on the customer as the app can find , typically consisting of their full name , place of work and age .   To send a video message , a business simply selects a customer , records the video using their phone 's camera , selects a thumbnail and sends the video away as a link on an email . The customer who receives the email gets a preview of the thumbnail and is able to follow the link to an external page with the video on it . In order to reduce data usage , videos feature in only 480p , similar to other video connection apps such as Snapchat . Unlike Snapchat , however , there 's no limit on how long the videos can be . By logging into the Bonjoro website , businesses are also able to customise the external page where their videos preview , although this feature is bundled within the app 's premium package of US$ 15 ( AUD$20 ) per user each month .   According to Barnett , Bonjoro has gained 40 paying users and , of course , is now looking to boost its user base . Skipping past the difficulties of bootstrapping , Barnett was able to fund the app 's development off the back of his previous company . He will look to raise funding this year to further develop the app ,   as a slew of new features wait in the pipeline , including the ability to send video messages to customers on Facebook , Twitter and SMS .   " We 've also just added a feature to integrate Gmail , so you do n't have to use a CRM to send emails to customers , " Barnett said . With many catching on to the value of video as a marketing tool , there is competition on the space : Melbourne 's Data Creative , for example , allows businesses to send personalised video messages based on various templates , on a large scale for any occasion , whether it be a sign up or email alerting them to a discount or deal .    The startup ran a campaign for Hawthorn Football Club with a simple video message saying , ' renew your membership for the new premiership season , starting 2016 . ' This message was sent out to all their previous members who had n't yet renewed , which was the core message , however from this 72 core variations spun from that core message to generate further tailored videos . Despite the competition , Barnett is hoping to raise over $ 1 million to fund Bonjoro 's expansion into the UK and US .   " We want to smash expectations and grow the platform to change the way businesses interact with customers and look to replace how email 's used , " said Barnett .