Three startups have been awarded cash prizes totaling $ 35,000 at the Fincluders Startup Challenge Amman , organised by seed investment company Oasis 500 and Sanad , a Middle - East and North Africa fund . The competition saw 50 applicants from over 18 countries competing for the top positions and cash prizes . The Amman competition follows the first Fincluders challenge held in Berlin last year . The top position of the Fincluders challenge and a cash prize of $ 20,000 went to AgroCenta , a startup which provides an online trading hub for farmers and their customers using real - time payments leveraged by mobile - money technologies . In addition to the trading hub , the startup also provides an on - demand logistics service . " The Fincluders Startup Challenge has been an eye opener for us , helping startups accelerate by giving them the opportunity to network and meet potential investors and partners , " said Francis Obirikorang , co - founder and CEO of AgroCenta in a press release to Ventureburn . Second place with a cash prize of $ 10,000 went to Liwwa , a marketplace lender to SMEs in Jordan . Democrance , a Jordan - based micro - insurance provider for those living in low - income populations , took third place , with a cash prize of $ 5,000 . BenBen , a startup providing access to blockchain " land transactions " , while not making it into the top three , received an honourable mention at Fincluders . " We are both elated and humbled by the interest in the Fincluders Startup Challenge here in Amman . The finalists proved their skills and determination during the pitching round of the competition , and we are confident these fledgeling businesses can contribute to spreading access to finance in the region , which is also the main goal of our fund , " said Sanad board chair Daniela Beckmann . Finalists were provided with flights and accommodation for the duration of the competition . The first day featured mentoring sessions conducted by range of industry experts , while the second day required finalists to present their products and services to a jury of industry experts .