Dedrone , a security startup which develops software to detect drones and protect high - value airspace from drone threats , just announced the closure of a $ 15 million Series B funding round led by Felicis Ventures and by John Chambers , Executive Chairman of Cisco , who has personally invested in the company . The fresh capital will be used to increase marketing and sales efforts , as well as investing in global research and development . All of Dedrone 's Series A investors are participating and providing funding for the Series B. In total , Dedrone has now raised about $ 28 million in venture capital . Founded in 2014 , Dedrone originally started in Kassel ( Germany ) , where it still operates an office , but moved its headquarters to San Francisco in 2016 . The young company offers security solutions addressing airspace vulnerabilities exploited by the advances in consumer and commercial drone technology . Dedrone 's software platform , detects aerial intrusions , provides early warning of malicious drone activities and is used to protect data centers , prisons , airports and other critical facilities from , corporate espionage , smuggling , terrorism and hacking . Dedrone 's new investor John Chambers stated : " Dedrone 's unique approach to use existing sensors and a powerful machine learning platform empowers enterprise and federal customers to re - gain control of their airspace . I believe Joerg and the Dedrone team are positioned to lead , and it 's an honor to be a part of their team . " Since its Series A funding round , Dedrone has achieved several notable milestones . For example , the young company added strategic , international resellers , including Airbus , Singtel and Deutsche Telekom and secured over 200 + installations in 2016 . Joerg Lamprecht , co - founder and CEO of Dedrone , stated : " The Dedrone team has experienced tremendous growth in the past year , and we 're thrilled to partner with such reputable organizations and partners , including John Chambers and Felicis Ventures . I 'm very proud of our team of world - class innovators and engineers , who are committed every day to build this business and advance the security market 's understanding of the risks associated with drone operations . Together with our partners , we 're making massive strides in providing businesses and individuals a complete detection and counterdrone solution for high - risk areas . "  