The Dutch ticketing startup Tiqets has secured a $ 17 million from a consortium of investors headed by HPE Growth Capital . The investment will be used by the three - year old company to scale globally and to make culture and entertainment more accessible to the masses . Tiqets has grown exponentially since the company 's founding in 2014 . The startup has 75 employees and , in addition to its head office in Amsterdam , has teams in New York , Paris , Barcelona , Vienna , and Rome . This growth has led to the young company winning the Dutch Tech5 award two years in a row - the award for Europe 's fastest growing tech companies . Tiqets ' technology enables consumers to use their smartphones to buy admission tickets for museums and entertainment venues . Consumers can then use those tickets just a few seconds later on their mobiles , without having to queue at the entrance . Millions of people from more than 150 countries are already using the service . Tiqets CEO Luuc Elzinga stated : " Our unique technology is a direct response to consumer demand for last - minute tickets to museums or attractions both at home and abroad . Our customers love the convenience of instant delivery without needing to print anything . Our investors have noticed that too ; we are very pleased with the investment led by HPE Growth Capital , which will give Tiqets the resources it needs to continue to scale , so we can connect new cities , expand our partner network and strengthen our leading position in the market . " Tiqets is also becoming an increasingly relevant marketing channel for museums and attractions worldwide , because the website and app are now available in seven languages . In addition , the technology is used by hundreds of travel companies , as well as influential blogs and hotel chains . Tiqets brings together a large group of new and difficult - to - target visitors and also helps its partners by sharing marketing information and helps to spread visitors throughout the day .