Uber has been weathering quite a storm lately , but the ride hailing company wants to remind you : It also builds technology , and not just serious sexism scandals . On Wednesday , Travis Kalanick 's beleaguered startup officially launched a new navigation system for its drivers . Features include lane guidance , next turn previews and real - time traffic information . It 's also introduced a night - time look to make the app easier on the eyes in the dark . SEE ALSO : Hey law students : Want a job ? Well , you better learn to code . Rolling out on both iOS and Android , the tool will give Android users access to in - app navigation for the first time . Previously , the latter would have to switch out of Uber 's app into Google Maps or Waze to plan their route . On iOS , the update has begun in some cities , but its launch on Android is still in its early stages . According to Maya Choksi , a senior product manager at Uber , the aim is to provide drivers with an optimal navigation experience . One of the main complaints from drivers on Uber 's iOS app was small font size , she said , but in the past , Uber had little say in how street labels appeared . That was because the company used a number of different mapping APIs " to kind of cobble together " in - app navigation .   " There were a number of things that were really suboptimal about this , " she explained . " We had no control over the size of [ street ] labels or which labels show or do n't show . We could n't control necessarily the name of the street where the driver is supposed to make a right turn . "   Image :   Uber Now the team controls more of the mapping stack , and they 're able to customise it specifically for the needs of Uber , UberX , UberPool and UberEats drivers -- a far more complicated set of directions than your average commuter trip . If drivers want , they 're still free to use the mapping app of their choice . Manik Gupta , head of products in Uber 's Maps team and a Google Maps veteran , said the new stack used mapping providers including TomTom to " mix and match " with Uber 's own proprietary data . The new driver navigation will not involve increased tracking of driver data , he added , although route data information always been collected .   " From a Maps perspective , you really want to model the real world as closely as possible . So the more data and the more detail you get about that , the better off you are , " Gupta said .   Image :   Uber Both Uber staffers stressed the rollout is n't perfect . " We 're are still learning , we are getting tons of driver feedback , " Gupta said . For now , for example , the navigation will not immediately re - route when there 's traffic ahead in the way Waze does . The bigger question may be where the navigation tool fits with Uber 's self - driving car ambitions . While Gupta would not comment directly , granular features such as lane guidance seem to hint in that direction . Monetising the project by licensing it to third parties was also " not on our radar . " Of course , Google is currently suing Uber , accusing the company of stealing self - driving car secrets , but Wednesday 's roll out is not about abandoning its historic reliance on Google Maps . According to Uber , anyway . In fact , Choksi said Uber had never used a Google base layer map in the iOS driver app -- a point confirmed later by an Uber spokesperson -- and Gupta added the company continued to use Google for rider - side search . " If [ a rider ] searches for something , it 's powered by Google , " he said . " There 's no real solution that really works for us , that 's the whole point . " Under the guidance of former Google Map executive Brian McClendon , Uber launched a global mapping effort in mid-2016 to build maps " tailored to the Uber experience . " The project has involved putting cars on the road akin to Google Street View in countries from Australia to Singapore .  