Farming has been the age - old way of making a living and keeping people working . It 's also very sustainable if you did n't notice . But what many do n't realize is that agriculture technology has been blossoming in recent years . Big " Farma " companies , along with venture capital firms and philanthropic organizations have been pouring money into startups that are producing new technology to make farming even more sustainable , profitable , and quality - oriented . We might be prone to think that agtech is just about modifying the genetics of the plants we 're growing , but that is not the whole truth . There are startups that are developing drone technology specifically for farming and researchers creating living microbes that kill the pests that ruin the crops we eat . Agtech is really beginning to revolutionize farming , and it 's benefitting both the farmer and the consumer in a big way . Since agtech is growing in potential , accelerators and incubators are sprouting up to make innovation easier . They are giving fertile ground to entrepreneurs by providing technical assistance , mentoring , networking , and resource access . In doing this , agtech accelerators are allowing new technology and innovation to enter into the market at breakneck speed . Check out a few burgeoning agtech accelerators below : AgLaunch is a 15 week accelerator that will start on May 1 . AgLaunch will take six different startups and provide them with up to $ 50,000 in investment as well as provide them with mentorship , training and other resources . AgTech Accelerator strives to be unique by taking a hands - on approach to helping startups . Companies that participate in this accelerator will be exposed to a number of resources including incubation and additional research . Though it 's not an accelerator , Agthentic helps agtech startups by refining their product - market fit and prepare them for potential investors . Agthentic helps startups jump the initial hurdles that end up compromising the success of any startup . FARM2050 focuses on improving global food production . They bring together farmers , researchers , entrepreneurs , manufacturers , and distributors in order to bring new technology to fruition and break them into the market . Royse AgTech connects startups with a network of investors , partners , and markets . They also host conferences that help train and connect agtech startups with other companies , farmers , and investors . Every year , Sprout picks eight startups to help out . They provide $ 25,000 in exchange for equity , training and mentorship , and access to investor groups across the globe . Thrive is an eight week accelerator that connects tech companies with the agriculture community , investors , and innovative entrepreneurs . Thrive forges these communities together in order to advance the cause of bringing more and better food to the world . Yield Lab started out of a desire to strengthen global food security . They believe that agricultural production must increase by 60% by 2050 to meet food demand . They provide $ 100,000 in funding to burgeoning startups as well as a nine month program geared toward mentorship and market preparation . Read more about farming innovation here at Tech . Co Photo : Flickr / cjuneau