Recently , VentureBeat published a report about " New York City 's overhyped startup scene , " an article that used Yext 's then - impending IPO to make a case that a lack of flashy IPOs and exits somehow indicated New York 's tech and startup environment has not thrived . That could n't be further from the truth . While New York may lack a blockbuster IPO , it 's ridiculous to base an entire city 's startup culture and success on IPOs . Other factors to take into account include the success of startups that stayed private while growing significantly , venture capital activity , companies that are ripe for IPOs , job growth , and companies interested in more than just turning a profit . In fact , New York is ranked number two overall in the world for startups after Silicon Valley when it comes to measuring performance , funding , market reach , talent , and startup experience , according to the Global Startup Ecosystem Report 2017 by Startup Genome . Specifically , the report estimates New York now has more than 6,300 startups and an ecosystem value of $ 74 billion . It also says New York has the fastest average time to hire an engineer of all U.S. cities , at just 24 days , which is astounding . Let 's put aside the fact that Yext 's IPO was indeed a smashing success and take a closer look at the tech community in NYC . New York is home to some amazing startup and tech companies , many of which are incredibly well respected in the tech world . Tech companies that call New York home include AppNexus , AOL , Casper , DigitalOcean , Etsy , Foursquare , General Assembly , Kickstarter , Meetup , MongoDB , Shutterstock , Sidewalk Labs , Squarespace , Sprinklr , Warby Parker , WeWork , and ZocDoc . On top of that , Silicon Valley - based tech companies that have a significant presence here include Facebook , Google , Snap , and Twitter . New York is well positioned to grow and succeed because of the diversity of the market , with startups in fintech , advertising , healthcare , education , real estate , SaaS , marketplaces , on - demand services , food , IoT , AR / VR , and Bitcoin / Blockchain . This means New York can create the next iteration of just about every vertical . Even more importantly , New York sets itself apart from every other tech I can think of with the diversity of the people who live and work here . Another trait that sets New York apart from other cities is that the companies here are engaged in social and civic issues more so than in many other communities . As Anil Dash wrote in July 2016 , " New York City is unique in that its tech community is grounded in principles of social and civic responsibility . It 's an important distinction , one that we 've got to work hard to protect and nurture . " This high level of civic engagement has been apparent in 2017 . Earlier this year , New York 's tech companies rallied against the Trump administration 's immigration travel ban , with more than 2,000 tech workers signing a letter opposing it . In that letter , we proudly wrote that the thriving immigrant community is a " crucial ingredient that sets New York City apart and a fundamental reason why we have all chosen to build our careers and companies here . " New York is a great place to do business , and the tech industry is thriving here . Let 's not forget that simply because there haven't been many headline - grabbing exits lately . Julie Samuels is the executive director of Tech : NYC , a nonprofit member organization that represents New York City 's technology companies . Tech : NYC supports its nearly 500 members by ensuring that New York is the best place to build and grow tech companies .