Faraday Future 's snazzy electric FF91 self - driving car prototype is very real : we saw it with our own eyes at CES earlier this month . The startup 's legal and financial troubles are very real too , though , and the latest lawsuit suggests that Faraday is working as hard on building a hype machine as it is on building a viable car . The lawsuit , which Jalopnik discovered this week , is from visual effects company Mill Group . It alleges that Faraday Future failed to pay for a $ 1.8 million virtual reality presentation , complete with holograms designed to help launch a new electric vehicle . The lawsuit mentions that the presentation was supposed to take place in January 2017 , and a Faraday spokesperson confirmed that the Mill Group was hired specifically for the CES unveiling . Preparations began last September , when Faraday reached out to the Mill with a proposal for " a graphic presentation , with virtual reality , augmented reality and holographic components , " according to the lawsuit . But there was no virtual reality or holographic component to the January presentation at CES , and it 's unclear if any other elements from the Mill 's work were part of the event .   Faraday agreed to pay for the multi - million dollar presentation in three installments , but has only ponied up $ 20,000 so far , the lawsuit alleges . Faraday said that it will contest the suit . " The Mill alleges that it is entitled to full payment for work that it performed , " a Faraday spokesperson said in a statement to PCMag . " Faraday Future denies this contention , and looks forward to the the opportunity to present the facts supporting its position through the legal process . " The Mill Group 's attorneys did not immediately respond to a request for comment . Faraday , on a quest to build a viable Tesla alternative , has been accused of ignoring bills before , including ones it owes to contractors building its factory in Nevada . That dispute drew the attention of state regulators , with one official even going so far as to call Faraday a Ponzi scheme . " You have a new company that has never built a car , building a new plant in the middle of the desert , financed by a mysterious Chinese billionaire , " Nevada State Treasurer Dan Schwartz told Fortune in November , referring to LeEco 's backing of Faraday . " At some point , as with Bernie Madoff , the game ends . " Can Faraday keep the game going long enough to deliver its first production cars to the numerous people it claims have placed online pre - orders ? As we know , the FF91 is a truly remarkable car . With a blistering zero to 60 time of 2.39 seconds , according to in - house tests , it 's got plenty of conventional power . It has next - generation artificial intelligence , too : the automatic parking feature lets you leave the car at the entrance to a parking lot and it will very slowly roam the aisles looking for an available stall all by itself . There are many more achievements , and assuming all of them translate from prototype to production , the FF91 will be a supercar 's supercar whose technology could also trickle down to more affordable models . ( Faraday hasn't announced the FF91 's MSRP yet , but you can bet it wo n't be affordable for most people ) . The ultimate challenge for Faraday 's engineering team , then , seems to be to keep slogging away at the FF91 while ignoring the company bigwigs who apparently have an unsustainable appetite for hype . That 's easier said than done , of course , especially if you 're worried that your employer 's next default will be on your paycheck . Tom is PCMag 's San Francisco - based news reporter .  