Raisin is currently one of the fastest - growing FinTech startups in Europe . Under the brands WeltSparen and Raisin , the young company offers an online marketplace for deposit products of partner banks in the European Economic Area since 2013 . The Raisin platform is available across Europe in English and localized platforms exist for Germany , France , Spain , and Austria . One week ago the Berlin - based company announced a EUR30 million Series C funding round which brought the total amount raised to date to EUR60 million . We recently had the chance to do an interview with Tamaz Georgadze , the co - founder & CEO of Raisin . Here it is : To kick this off , could you please give us a brief introduction about yourself and tell us where are you coming from ? My name is Tamaz Georgadze . I come from Georgia which when I was born was still part of the USSR . I now live and work in Germany , where I arrived when I was 16 to learn German and write my dissertation in economics . Upon completing my PhD , I worked at McKinsey & Co. for 9 years - the last few years as principal . I mainly served clients in the financial services industry across Europe and beyond . Where did you meet the other founders and where did the idea for Raisin come from ? I founded Raisin in 2012 , together with two former colleagues from McKinsey , where I worked as a consultant around one decade . The background of this company goes back to 2008 , when I saw a real surge in interest of banks in gathering retail deposits . Wholesale funding had dried up pretty quickly as a result of the financial crisis . Furthermore , as a Georgian national , I had colleagues in Germany privately asking me if I could help them open high - yielding Euro and U.S. dollar savings accounts in Georgia . I did this , helping with KYC , carrying documents from Germany to Georgia and understood on a personal level how hard opening bank deposits across borders can be . These factors inspired me to create a platform that would blend cross - border horizons with the simplicity of an online platform . It was an innovative proposition : A marketplace that consolidates savings deposit accounts across banking providers and integrates them into one interface . A one - stop - shop solution for regular savers . How long it took for the implementation of your idea ? Raisin GmbH was founded towards the end of 2012 . However , it took us a year to get the platform to go live . The legal implications of our platform were far - reaching and our business model was groundbreaking . This required quite some alignment with regulators and financial law experts to comply with financial , privacy and data security regulations . In addition , this compliance required substantial amounts of technical work . The idea of having a European deposit marketplace is something extremely interesting . Could you explain us how it works in practice ? Europe has a common market and a common currency , but it still lacks a common financial market . Savers in certain countries obtain lower interest rates than in other countries . We allow savers anywhere in Europe to obtain higher interest on their deposits regardless of where they reside by providing them access to savings products from banks across the EU . We provide a very straightforward and fully - online account opening process as well as a one - stop solution to managing multiple savings accounts . Our service is transparent and there are no hidden fees for our customers . The reception of our service has been very encouraging : Over 60,000 customers have deposited more than EUR 2 billion in our 27 partner banks from 15 European countries . These numbers are rapidly growing as more people realize they do not have to settle for near - zero or negative returns on their term deposits . The national EU - mandated deposit guarantee schemes safeguarding deposits up to EUR 100,000 per customer per bank give customers the security and comfort of knowing their savings are safe . What do you see next for deposit investing ? Our brand reputation and recognition enables us to deepen our offering in terms of bank and term - deposit offerings . In addition , we can broaden our portfolio of savings products to serve more customers with additional savings and investment products . These products should be relatively simple so that our offering continues to be transparent and comparable across providers . In addition , we are in the process of launching distribution partnerships with traditional banks to enable financial advisors to provide Raisin savings products to their customers , thus enabling them to secure better returns on their deposits . These distribution partners would potentially enable millions of European savers to access Raisin offerings via the online banking system of their existing banks . How have you been able to grow the transactions on your platform from zero to more than EUR2 billions ? That 's an impressive investments milestone . Since we launched our platform we have continuously sought to broaden Raisin 's offer by making sure that Raisin customers have access to consistently attractive interest rates . In addition , we have sought to increase our brand awareness by highlighting the novelty and quality of our service to a broad public . We use a broad range of marketing channels including both digital and traditional media and coverage garnered from important media such as The Economist , the Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times Our efforts have resulted in Raisin having the highest brand recognition of any fintech company in German - speaking markets . Thirdly , we have expanded our geographic coverage by opening localized platforms for Austria ( weltsparen.at ) , France ( raisin.fr ) , Spain ( raisin.es ) and English - speaking Europe ( raisin.com ) . Soon , we will also open a platform for the Italian market . With Raisin you already got more than EUR30 million in investments from top tiers VCs . Any suggestions that you can share with founders looking to raise funding ? We have actually raised over EUR60 million ! The 26th of January we announced a series C round of funding that raised an additional EUR30 million from investors including US - based Thrive Capital and with the participation of Raisin 's existing investors - Palo Alto - based Ribbit Capital and Index Ventures . If there is one piece of advice I recommend potential founders to treasure is to get the first round of funding right and clean . To skimp on legal fees or to settle for mediocre conditions is more harmful than most founders realize . We also always avoided rewarding our investors for non - investment contributions as this is exactly what founders should expect from early / Angel investors for free . Successive funding round negotiations will be based on the terms signed in the first round . So if one settles for poor terms in the first round , it is almost inevitable that all successive rounds will be affected . I found that one of the peculiarities of Germany is to have a highly - decentralized Fintech ecosystem . Berlin is a big tech hub , but Hamburg , Munich and Frankfurt also play an important role . Do you see this as an issue or a strength for the development of the German Fintech industry ? Decentralization is a feature of German business life . In Germany , the automotive sector is decentralized with hubs in different cities of different regions such as Wolfsburg , Stuttgart , Munich . The German fintech sector also reflects this diversity . Given that cities such as Hamburg , Munich , Frankfurt and Berlin each have distinct strengths in terms of the capital , infrastructure and talent they can draw on , it is understandable that Germany does not have one single fintech center , as one might say is the case in France or in the UK . What 's the startup scene like in Berlin ? Are you happy to have started Raisin there ? Raisin is very happy to have established its operations in Berlin . The vibrant startup scene and the plentiful availability of highly - qualified expatriates , facilitates the recruitment of talent . Given that a talented workforce is one of the key drivers of our success , the pool of talent Berlin provides is extremely important . Do you think that the Brexit and the tense political climate could represent an issue for the Fintech industry ? The fintech industry will continue to grow regardless of political turbulence : Events such as Brexit can however have a very heavy local impact . If fintech firms based in the UK lose their passporting rights to mainland Europe this could greatly reduce their potential customer base - we are talking of an EU market of currently 510 million people which would shrink to just over 64 million people living in the UK . On the other hand , it is clear that EU fintech companies will be less affected , given that the population of the EU without the UK will still amount to over 440 million people . This means that UK - based companies may have to establish a second base office in the European Union in order to do business on the continent . This adds overhead expenses and may be in some instances unwieldy . What excites you most right now and what do you see next for Fintech ? Do you believe the hype about Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence ? Overall I see two large trends that will define the next few years in the banking and fintech sector : In the fintech sector , I see regulatory and competitive pressure pushing banks to open access to their APIs , thus leading to more competition , greater transparency and above all more choice for customers . This will mean that banks will no longer be able to count on captive customers . In this context , easy access to information across banking institutions will make marketplaces increasingly important in determining where end customers place their money , based on the superior transparency and competitiveness of financial offers these marketplaces make available . The second trend that I see emerging is a significant increase in context - based services and products . That is , a situation where the increasing availability of reliable and affordable data , makes it possible for companies to offer products and services at the instant customers most need it , both in time - sensitive and location - sensitive contexts . Do you have any books , blogs , podcasts or other publications that you would suggest to other entrepreneurs ?   The books I recommend are Ben Horowitz ' " The Hard Thing about Hard Things " and Peter Thiel 's " Zero to One " which are insightful and fun to read . A publication I regularly read is the Economist . For news and trends in the fintech sphere I like listening to Andre Bajorat 's " Payment and Banking " podcast .