The digital wallet revolution has not have lived up to its expectations -- yet . According to Gallup , just 13 percent of smartphone owners have a digital wallet app , while the majority of those who do have an app ( 76 percent ) , rarely use it . That may be disheartening for those of us involved in the industry , but there 's always a silver lining . Business Insider is forecasting that in the U.S. alone mobile payments volume will increase to $ 503 billion by 2020 and will be used by 56 percent of the consumer population during that year . Meanwhile , Sweden , Singapore , the Netherlands , France , Canada , Belgium and the U.K. are already on their way to becoming cashless societies - with Australia , Brazil , India and much of Africa following suit . While there are still barriers and limitations , such as security concerns and limited number of compatible vendors , digital wallets , and mobile payments are not only changing how we pay for goods and services , they also have the power to go beyond payments because of how they 're constantly being evolved - which is going to be important for both businesses and customers . The idea of a digital wallet , which is basically just a digital version of a physical wallet , is n't new . In fact , David Chaum , an American cryptographer , created digital cash all the way back in 1983 . That was the beginning of cryptocurrencies . Once we entered the ' 90s , however , things began to accelerate rather quickly . Thanks to the internet and advances in technology , we had the ability to start ordering pizzas online ( some claim that happened in 1994 when a customer ordered a pepperoni and mushroom pizza from Pizza Hut ) and purchase movie tickets using a phone ( Ericsson and Telenor Mobil accomplished this in 1999 ) . We also saw the introduction of PayPal in 1998 , which is considered the first digital wallet . By 2003 , mobile devices started picking up momentum , which was followed by developments like the invention of bitcoin in 2008 and the introduction of Google Wallet ( 2011 ) and Apple Pay ( 2014 ) . Today , however , there 's a lot of confusion surrounding digital wallets and mobile payments since these terms are interchanged so frequently . To be clear , a digital wallet is simply tokenization of data . While digital wallets are often associated with payments , they can be used to issue digital rewards , tickets or boarding passes , room keys , or identification . Mobile wallets are basically the mobile version of a digital wallet with five types of mobile payments : For customers , digital wallets and mobile payments can replace carrying around a bulky wallet . Besides being a minor hassle , you no longer have to be concerned if you forgot your cash , credit card , or ID at home . All that information is stored on your smartphone . And , unlike your wallet , you probably never leave home without your phone . Additionally , using digital and mobile payments saves you time . Instead of inserting a card into an EMV terminal , you can just swipe and go . And , when shopping online , you no longer have to race against time to complete a purchase before your session expires , like when buying concert tickets . As long as you have a digital wallet , you can make instantaneous payments online . Digital wallets also come with customer perks like promotions , cash back rewards , and keeping track of your accounting easier . Most importantly , they 're convenient . You can split a dinner tab with friends , pay bills , and avoid expensive transaction fees when you travel . For businesses you have access to funds almost immediately , you save money on transaction fees by removing third parties , and you do n't have to invest in an expensive POS system . Additionally , digital and mobile payments provide access to real - time data , helps you maintain a competitive edge , and most importantly , improves the customer experience since you 're providing fast and secure payment methods . Digital wallets and mobile payments are rapidly evolving in order to enhance the experience for both customers and business owners . That means that they 're going beyond simply transferring funds electronically or swiping your smartphone over a checkout terminal . For example , major banking institutions that JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp. , Wells Fargo & Co. and U.S. Bancorp , launched a joint venture called clearXchange . This allows customers to transfer funds instantly to another bank account through their phones . Traditional banks are also creating digital wallet apps that allow you to review your account , establish budgets , receive alert notifications , and transfer fund via social channels like Facebook . Wearables , such as watches , wristbands , and jackets , are starting to be used to make payments , as is the possibility of tapping into the Internet of Things . In the near future , you 'll be able to preorder your morning cup of coffee at Starbucks while driving since your Starbucks app is connected to your car . The most buzzed trend , however , is the blockchain . While often associated with cryptocurrencies like bitcoin , the blockchain will make it possible for digital wallets to handle transactions like ; Like it or not , digital wallets and mobile payments are steering us towards a cashless world where payments can be made quickly , conveniently , and securely with just the tap of a button . However , digital wallets are also moving beyond smartphones and payments . On top of transferring funds , we 'll be able to monitor accounts in real - time and use blockchain technology to make immediate transfers of money to titles . What do digital wallets and mobile payments mean for you ? John Rampton is an entrepreneur , investor , online marketing guru and startup enthusiast . He is founder of the online invoicing company Due . John is best known as an entrepreneur and connector . He was recently named # 3 on Top 50 Online Influ ...