Starting a business is not an easy endeavor . There are a ton of moving parts -- infrastructure , client acquisition , website traffic , money management and more . For a new business leader , this can be overwhelming . However , utilizing a bigger platform can be a way to growth hack your startup . Getting on a platform like Fiverr , a site where freelance workers can connect with employers looking for their skills , is one of the best ways to jumpstart your service business . The site 's success stories show how normal people have been able to use the platform to create massive success . Damian Pros was only 19 when his mother was diagnosed with cancer . His mother 's income was reduced by about 50 percent and his dad did n't have a job then . Any savings they had went toward his mother 's medical bills , so he did n't really have any other choice but to succeed . He jumped on Fiverr and built an empire where he now makes five figures a month from that platform alone . If you 're looking to leverage a bigger platform to skyrocket the growth of your startup , here are three reasons to do so : Most startups face the problem of having little - to - no customers when they first start out . This is normal . However , when you utilize a platform like Fiverr , you suddenly have access to whoever uses their platform . Whether those users are vendors or customers not directly looking for your product , you still get the benefits of having an influx of eyeballs on your product or service . Once you 've grown to a solid base of customers , you can then re - invest a good chunk of that revenue in advertising for acquiring more customers . Fiverr is a big enough platform that gives you access to millions of business owners around the world . However , you should n't be limited to what a platform provides . Pros uses Fiverr as a pre - qualifier to acquire bigger clients who can afford his agency 's high - end services . Since he often starts working with these clients on Fiverr , it 's easier for him to close high - end deals . In the psychology of influence this is called " commitment - consistency " bias . By getting business owners to commit to a smaller purchase of $ 50 to $ 200 , they are more likely to be consistent with their past decision and buy a higher - end service from you . Common sense is n't always straight to the point . It 's proven by the hundreds of businesses with poor customer service . You can be great at closing sales but if you lack in customer service , then you wo n't retain clients . In fact , it 's extremely important you get customer service right on Fiverr , because if you do n't , the customer can write a bad review which leads to less business . People buy products and services on Fiverr based on quality . Quality is perceived by reviews . If you have good reviews , you 'll get business and Fiverr will promote you by ranking you higher on their site . It 's their own SEO system . That 's why Damian has two full time support agents for his business on Fiverr . Even though they 're not always needed , it 's important they 're there to give a timely response to potential customers . Being on a larger platform like Fiverr eliminates the need of having your own website . Though a website should be one of the first steps in your startup 's development , Fiverr enables you to have a strong presence without one . With Fiverr , there 's no website issues you have to work around . Fiverr also has their own integrated payment system . Many online business owners struggle at first by not knowing which payment processor to use and how to implement one on their site . Using what Fiverr has on their site eliminates the need to find a payment processor .   These are only some of the ways using a bigger platform can help eliminate many problems a startup faces when getting started . With dozens of marketplace platforms out there , it 's just a matter of finding the one that fits your startup . Once you 've found a marketplace where you can sell your product or service , it 's time to build an infrastructure , develop incredible customer service practices and start attracting customers instantly .   Nathan Resnick is a serial entrepreneur who currently serves as CEO of Sourcify , a marketplace of the world 's top manufacturers . Having brought dozens of products to life , he knows the ins and outs of how to turn ideas into realities.&n ... ;