Other than funding and getting in fights with cofounders , social media has become one of the staples of the business world . As one of the most affordable means of getting your brand out there , social media platforms like Facebook , Twitter , Instagram , and dozens others have transformed the way startups and corporations interact with their customers . And because of the always shifting nature of the marketing medium , staying abreast of upcoming trends is more important than ever . Fortunately , SproutSocial understands how important your social media campaigns are in the new year , and they have consolidated upcoming trends into a six simple tips that will help you stay the course in 2017 . Check them out below and keep your ear to the ground for more changes in the future : It 's no secret that Facebook and Instagram have copied nearly every good idea that Snapchat has come up with . From memories to disappearing messages , the social media powerhouse is always playing catchup to the tiny yellow logo . Fortunately for avid users , facial filters , also known as artificial intelligence lenses , will soon become part of the Facebook and Instagram marketing schemes as well . Customer service is a make or break part of any company . But with automation becoming a viable option for this important facet of business , more and more companies are turning to chatbots to do the heavy lifting for them . And with advanced technologies surfacing that can handle the load of even the average Facebook user , you can expect chatbots to become a staple of customer service in 2017 . With the installment of Instagram 's new algorithm , it 's becoming harder and harder to crack the organic content code . Because social media companies , like all companies , enjoy making money , the paid content trend is only going to increase over the coming years . Social media ad spending is estimated to surpass $ 41 billion in 2017 , a statistic that pretty much speaks for itself . Social media is long passed the days of focusing on the individual . Platforms across the medium are shifting their attention to business promotion as opposed to the everyday people that use them . A Simplify360 report found 36 percent of businesses use social media analytics for more than competitor analysis . This means that business features and analytic tools are going to improve over the next year , paving the way for even more targeted marketing . Despite the projected popularity of customer service chatbots , automation will likely become less of a factor in 2017 . With more and more blunders surfacing from notable companies , the public relations nightmares that surface are beginning to overshadow the advantages of social media automation . Plus , authenticity sells on social media , which is hard to pull off when a robot is doing most of the work for you . Online purchasing is n't going anywhere soon . And while you probably turn to ecommerce sites like Amazon for most of your digital shopping , social media websites have begun incorporating marketplaces on their websites . In addition , these social media platforms have made it easier and easier for users to buy from companies through their site . This trend is likely to skyrocket as soon as a viable means of purchasing becomes apparent . If you want a more in depth look at some of these trends , take a look at the infographic below produced by SocialSprout and get your company ready for the social media transition of 2017 :   Photo : Flickr / magicatwork