The goal of startup competitions is simple : give smaller startups the attention , opportunity , and maybe even prizes that they would have a hard time finding without a stage to pitch on . They bring together investors , founders , and entrepreneurs to facilitate economic growth and spur innovation in a way that the natural process of business does n't allow . For that reason , startup competitions need to be inclusive . They need to have an eclectic array of startups participating in the events , a wide range of investors that could change the life of a hopeful founder , and above all , a diverse founder group looking to change the world with their startup . At Tech . Co , our focus on inclusion shines the brightest when it comes to our Startup of the Year competition , which takes place at our annual conference , Innovate ! and Celebrate . In addition to providing a supportive environment for startups to get noticed , we 're also committed to bringing startups from around the world from all walks of life together to compete for prizes that could bring their company the success they 're looking for . " Tech . Co 's Startup of the Year Competition takes it to another level with their nationwide , highly inclusive focus , " said Cheryl Foil , principal at Kiddar Capital , in an interview with Tech . Co . Our Startup of the Year competition is the best example of practicing what you preach when it comes to inclusion and diversity . As you 'll see in the infographic below , our current applicant pool for the 2017 edition is a model of inclusion , with 47 percent minority founders and 34 percent female founders . We 've even received applications from 38 different countries . And this , we will assure you , is not an accident . " Inclusion has always been a priority for Tech . Co 's Startup of the Year competition , " said Jen Consalvo , COO of Tech . Co . " We work hard to invite and attract a sizable amount of female and minority entrepreneurs and offer an incredible opportunity for them to get noticed by top accelerator programs , investors and industry leaders . " If you think you have what it takes to be the Startup of the Year , you need to apply today . Remember , the 100 startups that are chosen will be invited to join us in San Francisco , CA for Innovate ! and Celebrate 2017 , and will be on their way to startup success in no time !   Read more about the Startup of the Year Competition here on Tech . Co