Software - as - a - Service ( SaaS ) with cloud technology are starting to become a norm . Angel List reports 11,325 SaaS startups with an average value of $ 4.3 million . These tools can help you grow both internally and externally , especially when it comes to communication . We asked seven entrepreneurs which SaaS products are the most attractive and why . Check out their answers and investigate the value of the following products for your startup . We use Ring Central because it eliminates the need for an on - premise private branch exchange ( PBX ) in order to have a complete enterprise phone system . The cloud gives the same capability at a fraction of the cost . The mobility it offers is excellent : we can literally take our entire phone system out of the office , forwarding calls to our mobile devices and monitoring all activity through the app . - Jonathan Long of Market Domination Media Using a virtual PBX phone system and TollFreeForwarding has allowed us to expand our business considerably . By establishing local and toll - free numbers in a variety of countries , we can market to international audiences and serve them in their own language . Even though all of the phone lines forward to our US offices , each line has a native speaker who is able to help individuals in a variety of countries . - Marcela De Vivo of Gryffin We use Grasshopper because it protects the personal phone numbers of our employees who answer calls and reach out to customers . It 's also easily integrated into a voice command system where the employees using the system are only one click away from connecting with customers and vice versa . I 've always used it and have never had any complaints about their user interface . - Rob Fulton of Rob Fulton We are fans of Google Hangouts . Google Hangouts are the easiest way to quickly voice and video chat with one or more people both internal or external to the organization . Powerful tools like the ability to host live hangouts - which stream to YouTube and directly ring phone numbers into a conference - make it even more versatile . Best of all , it 's free . - Nanxi Liu of ENPLUG Sqwiggle is great for remote teams as not only can you communicate with the rest of your team , you can easily engage with them throughout the work day . They have an innovative product with click - to - talk and instant video . This allows you to stay in close contact with your team and build a strong remote culture . - Randy Rayess of VenturePact Our staff is based remotely around the world , and Skype wins for its universality . Everyone knows it and knows how to use it . It 's cost effective for our business , and our clients prefer using it to some of the newer voice communication SaaS products . We use it for company and team - wide chats , voice and for transferring small files . We haven't needed to look elsewhere for communication tools . - Jared Brown of Talentopoly Switch is a virtual phone system made by the same guy that invented Google Voice and UberConference . Switch has a simple and clean user interface , as well as all of the features and functionality that you hope for in a modern phone system . It never ceases to amaze me how far telecom has lagged behind in terms of features and functionality . Switch gives me hope ! - Danny Boice of Trustify This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .