Technology is a double edged sword . While it allows you to keep in contact with friends , check the weather in an instant , and watch more television series than should ever be allowed , it also opens up startups , corporations , and everyday citizens to cyber attacks and hacks that could result in millions of dollars in losses . And with all that on the line , you 'd think people would understand the importance of protecting your online data . Unfortunately , you could n't be more wrong . According to a recent study from the Pew Research Center , Americans are wildly uninformed about the means by which they can protect themselves from hackers itching to steal their personal online data . In a thirteen - question survey , Americans were tested on their knowledge of a number of cybersecurity issues and terms . And they did n't do very well .   It is worth noting that most Americans are n't doing anything wrong . They are n't misinformed about how to protect their online data from potential hackers , rather they are n't informed at all . As you can see from the above graph , the most common response to most answers was " not sure , " pointing to a general lack of information opposed to misinformation . " Although the share of online adults who can correctly answer questions about cybersecurity issues varies from topic to topic , in most cases the share providing an actual incorrect answer is relatively small , " wrote the authors of the study . " Rather , many users indicate that they simply are not sure of the correct answer to a large number of the questions in this survey . " With questions ranging from email encryption and WiFi traffic to free credit reports and private browsing , it 's no wondering Americans are struggling to keep up . The cybersecurity sector is as broad as it is vital , making everyday citizens confused , overwhelmed , and downright annoyed . However , if you are truly committed to making sure you are protected from malware , hacks , ransomware , and any other type of cyber attack , understanding these questions is the first step in ensuring your digital safety . Read more about cybersecurity here on Tech . Co Photo : Flickr / Blue Coat Photos