" Data tells a compelling story -- way more compelling than whatever I can articulate , " Maia Josebachvili , vice president of strategy , marketing and people at the recruitment software company , Greenhouse , told me . Josebachvilli is like so many others today who are striving to make their workplaces better . And , in that context , she described to me how her team members noticed immediately the difference people analytics could make at a growing company like theirs . " We found that we could give the same advice to a manager over and over again , but they did n't always listen , " she said . " However , once we started sharing metrics and backing our statements up with data , our managers became incredibly invested in the results . " People analytics " involves the use of data to make decisions about company practices and processes . " With the help of people analytics , " Josebachvili continued , during our conversation , " our managers now feel truly responsible and empowered to own the engagement of their teams . " As more leaders make this same discovery , people analytics -- which is reshaping human resources practices -- will become a bigger part of how business is done . In fact , according to the Global Human Capital Trends 2016 report from Deloitte University Press , 32 percent of the more than 7,000 companies surveyed said they were ready to start using people analytics . That 's an increase from just 24 percent of companies in 2015 . However , many business leaders remain hesitant to start a widespread use of data tools . Especially for a startup , such tools might seem unnecessary or too expensive . That 's a shame because , in actuality , using data to inform talent - management decisions helps companies dodge costly mistakes . Here are five wasteful situations that using people analytics could help companies avoid : When job - seekers coming out of the hiring process are unhappy , the result can be damage to the organization 's reputation as an employer and damage to its overall brand . In fact , according to a May 2015 CareerBuilder study of more than 5,000 American employees , 69 percent of respondents said they were less likely to buy from an organization after a bad interview experience . Similarly , when Josebachvili and her colleagues looked at data from their recruiting process , they were understandably dismayed to uncover a poor candidate experience . " We found that one of our KPIs , our candidate experience score , was not as high as we wanted it to be , " she said . " The recruiting team dug into the data , assessed any existing problems and potential opportunities , created a plan and was able to raise the percentage of happy candidates by 13 percent in just one quarter . " For a growing company , every hire matters . Choosing the wrong person for a role affects the team 's productivity and inevitably leads to more resources being wasted as you look for a replacement . Luckily , there are now people analytics tools that help companies make better decisions . Ray McKenzie , founder and principal of Red Beach Advisors , based in Los Angeles , Calif. , said he uses Predictive Index to guide his hiring decisions . The tool employs behavioral , skills and cognitive assessments to provide unbiased insights about job - seekers . " Implementing people analytics has helped me place individuals in correct roles within my company , " McKenzie told me . " By positioning the individual properly , I receive a better work output from their efforts . People are in roles they enjoy ; the workplace is happier . Employees have a sense of self - gratification and accomplishment . It 's a win - win for everyone . " For companies in new or niche industries , " best practices " are often not yet in place for companies to follow to create an enjoyable workplace . Unfortunately , adapting strategies from other industries or guessing what to do does n't always work out . But now , with people analytics , companies can get to know their own workforce rather than making unfounded assumptions . The insights gained can help them engage the best employees and retain them , to avoid costly turnover . Keegan Peterson 's experience is an example : " Being in the cannabis industry , there is not a lot of publicly available data on the people within it , " Peterson , who 's founder and CEO of Wurk , in Denver , Colo. , told me . " In order for us to support the needs of the industry , we need to first understand who works in it and what needs those individuals have . " In his case , Peterson said , he originally assumed that a free - form work environment would allow his team to do better and more innovative work . But people analytics showed that was n't the case . " There is really a science to it , " he explained . " The data showed that structured processes with specific creative times was [ a framework ] much more attractive and beneficial to our workforce . Once we made the change , we could clearly see an increase in productivity , which also increased our company morale . " The longer an organization uses people analytics , the better its leaders get at being able to spot trends and get ahead of problems . Month after month , year after year , certain patterns become obvious . " One of the biggest benefits of people analytics is the ability to track employee - sentiment trends over time , " said Ketti Salemme , senior employee engagement manager at TINYpulse in Seattle , Wash. " Looking at our own data , we 're able to see which time of year employee happiness is typically lowest or highest , and plan accordingly . It 's immensely helpful with both business decision - making and predicting and preventing work - culture dips . " TINYpulse 's own tool helps track these trends ; so does another tool , Syndio . Through short surveys , Syndio provides insights into the relationships among employees to see how well everyone is working . It offers suggestions on how to improve the workplace , and identifies individuals who can help improve morale . Growing companies need to save money wherever possible . Being able to avoid paying more for unemployment insurance , or wasting a paycheck on an employee who is n't being productive , is a big benefit . Celeste O'Keefe , CEO of The DANCEL Group Inc. , in New Orleans , La. , found that people analytics gave her the information she needed to avoid these costs . " We use Veriato to improve productivity and training , " she said . " We look at the time spent working , as well as the end results . " After the software revealed , for instance , that one particular employee had been spending most of the workday playing solitaire , O'Keefe said the company was able to stop an unemployment claim . " As a small business , that 's a key savings , " she pointed out . " When a former employee goes on unemployment , expenses go up . The software gives me something tangible to prove my position , so it is n't just ' their word against mine . ' " Waldorf , Md .- based Heather R. Huhman is a career expert , experienced hiring manager and president of Come Recommended , a content - marketing and digital - PR consultancy for job - search and human - resources technologies . She is the ...