Market research is imperative to the success of any business . According to studies , some of the top reasons why startups fail include the lack of planning , the absence of supplier knowledge , and issues with pricing . Regardless of your niche , the chances of these occurring can be greatly reduced , if not eliminated , with adequate research . However , conducting market research is a lot harder than it seems . With the overwhelming amount of data obtainable via the internet , it 's more challenging to siphon what 's relevant and beneficial for growing your business . To ensure your success , below are five of the best market research strategies and resources you can leverage : When it comes to market research , it 's best to start with wider scopes before investing time , money , and energy on statistically accurate data . With exploratory research , your goal is to find opportunities for business growth and scout research areas that require prioritization . Due to the broad nature of exploratory research , you can start with free sources such as academic journal entries , government research , and online publications that deal with topics in your niche . You can also start with a simple content research tool like BuzzSumo to find the latest news and the most popular content based on keywords . Conducting exploratory research will also help you pinpoint problems that need to be solved . It 's basically the same as researching for ideas in content marketing . First , you look for problems that your target market has . If there 's already an existing solution , see if you can improve it . Otherwise , look for another problem by way of primary research , which means to obtain information straight from your potential customers . An inexpensive way of doing primary research this is to utilize Q&A websites like Quora . By understanding the questions that your target market have , you can determine whether there 's demand for the information , service , or product that you offer . You can also refer to social media websites so you can participate in existing conversations yourself . Another way to do primary research is to run online surveys using platforms like SurveyMonkey . This will help you setup a campaign , reach millions of users that match your specified demographics , and generate results within minutes . Running online surveys allows the voice of your target consumers to influence decisions that will affect the direction of your business . It can be done for different purposes such as market segmentation , fine - tuning the features you want for your next release , and generating positive customer feedback for social proof . The success of any online marketing campaign boils down to one thing - your keyword strategy . Take note that keywords can determine the visibility of your promotional material , be it for ads or branded content . One of the go - to tools for this is the Adwords Keyword Planner from Google , which will provide you with a set of usable keywords based on a phrase or term that describes your industry . Knowing the current , on - demand keywords in your niche is the first step to developing a targeted SEO strategy . It also allows you to check out the rates for competitive keywords so you can plan your advertising budget accordingly . If you 're already invested in a product , an unconventional way of testing demand is to launch a crowdfunding campaign . It 's not exactly a market research strategy , nor is it free , but it lets the judgment of experienced online investors validate the profitability of your product idea . Simply put , if you hit your crowdfunding goal , it means people find your product intriguing and worth their investment . In which case , you 'll also get the funding to propel your business forward . But if your campaign fails , then you should probably go back to the drawing board and avoid wasting any more resources on your idea .