On April 13 we 'll host the EU - Startups Conference 2017 at the HTW Audimax in Berlin . Aside of fireside chats with inspiring founders , interesting speeches , and networking opportunities , we 'll have an exciting pitch competition with 15 promising startups from all across Europe . The winning startup will receive a prize package worth EUR17,500 . The package includes prizes / credits from cloud technology provider Aruba Cloud ( value : EUR9,000 ) , the email service SendGrid ( value : EUR2,950 ) , the CRM , project management & invoicing solution Teamleader ( value : EUR3,600 ) , the design marketplace 99designs ( value : EUR1,000 ) and our Job Board ( value : EUR950 ) . In total we received over 140 applications from all across Europe . It was a tough decision , but here are the 15 early - stage startups that made it to the finals : Actijoy is a Czech startup that created a digital personal trainer and diet coach for dogs . Their pioneering solution involves an IoT device , which is a health and activity tracker , a WiFi bowl which tracks the food and water consumption , and a mobile app which evaluates all the collected information and provides you with advice . Ari . Farm is a Stockholm - based startup which has developed a crowdfarming platform that enables anyone anywhere in the world to easily invest in livestock while making a real difference . By using the disrupting nature of the internet and Somalia 's most important sector , Ari . Farm helps livestock farmers from there to reach a global audience . B2B Pay is a German / Finnish startup which offers virtual bank accounts for companies that export into Europe which collects payments domestically . Its mission is to make international business transactions as quick and as cheap as possible with complete transparency about costs . It simplifies the bureaucratic process and eliminates the need for back and forth paperwork . Gaming Athletes is a Berlin - based startup which is building an AI based online platform that focuses on the organization of worldwide online tournaments for eSports . It supports online gamers with competitive challenges for their favorite games . The online tournaments differentiate regions , time zones , skill classes and ensure fair play to all of the athletes . IzalinK is a French Nice - based startup which creates a unified e - commerce platform that enables car care centers to build and run their entire online business , from payment processing and analytics , to stock management and marketing tools and drive new sales . Jaspr is a Berlin - based startup which lets you trade your talents and unneeded valuables with like - minded people around you in minutes , cash - free . Jaspr creates good - spirited , surprising opportunities by arranging trades between like - minded people via a mobile app . MintIt is an Austrian startup which build an AI - powered education platform for value investors . In simple terms it is a bot to help you improve investor 's decision making process . MintIt aims to change the wealth industry by providing transparency and by giving control back to investors . MySkillCamp is a Belgian startup that enables companies to easily create their own private learning and training environment . This way , MySkillCamp helps its clients to improve and digitize their current corporate courses . The MySkillCamp platform enables anyone to create , share and measure the impact of their online courses . nevisQ is an Aachen - based startup which created new technology that allows you to monitor activities within living spaces ( for e.g. retirement homes ) . nevisQ 's HealthCare Solutions safes lives by tracking unusual movements and falls . Through this technology , emergency and relatives are directly informed keeping your beloved ones safe at any time . Parkd : Imagine never receiving a parking ticket again , experiencing the hassle of paying at a parking meter , with a text message , or a clunky mobile application . The Belgian startup PARKD developed a ( patent pending ) parking solution that automatically starts , stops and pays for your parking session using an EOBD - II device . Rebug.io is a Polish startup which will record all user activites and interactions with your web application and based on this data set it will automatically detect IT bugs and User Experience errors . With Rebug.io your programmers will be immediately notified and will be able to watch user activities like watching YouTube videos . Scooty is an electric scooter sharing system which was started in Brussels . Users can trace , reserve and start a scooter that is part of a fleet spread out across the city via a mobile application . The scooters are equipped with helmets , users are insured and the batteries are charged by Scooty , so that you only need a smartphone to take a ride . Tasko is a Zurich - based startup which created an online portal for businesses and professionals to outsource digital tasks in a convenient and cost - effective manner . Admin work , online research and marketing support are typical tasks that Tasko currently does for its clients at $ 5 per hour - all 100% quality - assured ! Vino a Porter is an Italian startup with the mission to make the wine world easier by understanding people 's taste and needs and recommending the perfect wine for them . The startup developed a three step process to help you find what you 're looking for both in online and in brick and mortar stores . ViViDoctor is a Brussels - based startup which created a video - based telemedicine solution that lets a patient connect to a certified local doctor within minutes . When you need medical help no more calling for an appointment during your work , spending on gas , finding parking only then to wait in the waiting room . Pull your mobile out of your mobile phone and within a few taps you can connect a doctor that 's online - or schedule an online visit . Interested to join ? Secure your ticket now ! We kept it affordable : The two ticket categories we 're offering ( EUR49 / EUR99 ) already include food and drinks during the event . Tickets can be purchased here ! Teamleader helps you and your team work smarter so your small business prospers . Bringing CRM , project management and invoicing together with an intuitive software solution , Teamleader enables your team to collaborate , organize and build your business . Hiscox is a leading specialist insurer and offers tailored insurance cover for sole traders , freelancers or contractors , as well as small business owners . This includes professional indemnity for the specific business needs in IT , marketing and advertising , recruitment and management consultancy . Often , self - employed freelancers and startups are not sure what kind of risks they might face , and what cover they need . Hiscox does its best to explain what the different insurance policies can cover and provides excellent service to its clients . PwC NextLevel unifies the products and services PwC offers to startups and scale - ups . PwC Europe 's startup initiative has access to the global PwC Network ( 220,000 + people in 157 countries ) and is able to help in every single facet of your business . PwC provides industry focused assurance , tax and advisory services to enhance value for its clients and their stakeholders . OpenUp is the BNP Paribas Group initiative to foster collaboration with startups . It is a program and a digital platform connecting BNP Paribas employees working on innovation or business topics with startups worldwide . Our ambition is to co - create innovation together with fintech startups and build up the future of banking with innovative companies . Tata group is a multi - sectoral global enterprise headquartered in India , comprising over 100 independent companies operating in over 100 countries . Tata has always been committed to innovation and helping the next generation of entrepreneurs , wherever it operates , through its various initiatives across Europe . Tata partners with NACUE to deliver the Varsity Pitch Competition , which is one of the UK 's leading graduate entrepreneur pitching competitions , while in the Netherlands Tata recently partnered with Team Academy to support EU - based student entrepreneurs . Aruba Cloud , part of the Aruba Group and one of cloud computing leaders in Europe , offers startups the best Cloud technology and a three - year program to support them as they develop their business plans . By taking part in We START you UP , startups will have up to EUR9,000 of free Cloud credit , complimentary technical support , an European network of Data Center and many more exclusive benefits to help them in the market . Wirecard is a global technology group that supports companies in accepting electronic payments from all sales channels . Using the Wirecard Checkout Portal , merchants can easily , quickly and cost - effectively select the individual payment methods they need and integrate them in their online shop . With the Checkout Portal , merchants benefit from secure payments with an integrated fraud prevention , a multilingual support , partner models and a transparent pricing .