Silicon Valley Bank today released its 2017 Southern California Startup Outlook report , their second annual SoCal - focused report a sampling of the healthcare and tech startups in the area , and how they view their industries ' 2017 opportunities and challenges . Here 's what the startups between San Luis Obispo and San Diego are facing this year . 54 percent of respondents think this year will improve on the last , while 40 percent think it 'll stay the same . Just six percent took the pessimistic approach , proving that startup optimism is still strong , despite the uncertainty that the report covers , noting that : " Entrepreneurs all over tell us that they are experiencing a greater amount of uncertainly this year compared to last . Consequently , that uncertainty has led to a more cautious outlook . However , they 're still hiring , and they 're still optimistic . " 73 percent of SoCal startups expect to continue hiring . Nearly 37 percent of SoCal startups say that their fundraising experiences are best described as " extremely challenging . " This is a noticeable bump when compared to the average response of " extremely challenging " across all U.S. startups polled , which was just 23 percent . What 's to blame ? Likely the lack of VCs in the SoCal area , if the methods of fundraising are any indicator : Startups in the area plan to rely more on corporate venture than do the rest of U.S. startups in general . Here 's perhaps the most interesting metric to be gleaned from the report . SoCal startups , possibly learning from their fundraising challenges , are looking towards buyouts rather than the classic startup success story of becoming a public company . Again , from the report : " Acquisition is the dominant realistic , long - term   exit strategy of all startups . Despite excitement around IPOs , few startups expect to go public .   That is even truer in SoCal , where just 4 percent expect to have an IPO , compared to 16 percent nationally . " While the Silicon Valley bubble may be a stone 's throw away , SoCal startups have a different set of experiences and expectations . Read more about startups here on Tech . Co