A lot of people have had to stay up late to cram for an important test . Your textbooks are sprawled out in disarray , you 've got empty coffee cups crowding your desk , and anxiety is perforating the room like a bad smell . Lucky for us , three startups are trying to ease that pain . Edtech has become a staple of the education community . More and more startups are committing to making learning easier for students of all ages . From online test prep courses to the Uber of tutoring , technology is giving education the priority it so rightly deserves . Check out these three startups transforming the learning game for the better : Say hello to TriviaNote , a company that 's turning studying into a stimulating and entertaining experience . TriviaNote turns your notes into trivia games and quizzes to use for studying -- taking the toll of setting up your own practice test off your back . All you have to do is upload your notes into the platform , via laptop or smartphone , indicate the things you want to study in bold and TriviaNote goes to work scouring the Internet for additional relevant content to transform into flashcards or quizzes .   Students can also collaborate with their classmates and challenge each others with quizzes . TriviaNote is currently in public beta testing . Few academic moments have gained more infamy than the SATs . It 's one of the biggest make - or - break moments for a students trying to get into college . SAT preparation has gained notoriety as a drudging and awful experience and students end up signing up for prep courses that leave their wallets empty and their morale drained , which is why D.C .- based startup PrepFactory created an innovative solution to help students prepare and parents to save their money . PrepFactory is a free online platform that provides students with games and fun videos to help with the preparation process . For students with test anxiety , they try to offer some comfort by providing questions and takes them through a step - by - step break down to gain confidence . PrepFactory already has a user base of 200,000 and plans to incorporate other exams like the GRE and LSAT . For students that have a hard time cramming a ton of definitions into their head , Picmonic , a research proven audiovisual mnemonic tool helps students retain and recall information . Using goofy drawings with story and audio , these tools create a studying system that can help retention and improve test scores . Subjects include everything from science and K-12 topics to test prep and a variety of college topics . Picmonic via Facebook We 're definitely beginning to enter a whole new era of studying . As students begin to close their hardcover textbooks and opt for a more stimulating alternative , startups are going to have to help deliver information in a way that fosters interactivity , maintains one 's attention and progresses their education . The day may come when students might even begin to look at an Algebra textbook with glee rather than dread . Photo : Flickr / Steven S. , Stocksnap / Pavan Trikutam