Over the last decade , Spain has experienced a shift from traditional to contemporary regarding working culture . The 400 + co - working spaces all around Spain have contributed greatly to this shift and have fostered engagement and innovation in its regions . The economic crisis , the growing number of flexible independent workers and startups , and the shift towards collaborative economic models , in addition to the social and engaging mentality of the Spaniards , have added up to the fast - growing co - working ecosystem in the country . In exchange for a monthly fee that in most cases ranges from EUR100 to EUR250 , co - working enthusiasts get access to an office environment , Internet , coffee , meeting rooms and in some cases mentoring opportunities in almost all Spanish cities .   To ease your decision and to provide you with a short overview , we 've compiled a list with 10 of the coolest co - working spaces in Madrid . And here it is : Utopic_US - Home of 3 offices around Madrid , Utopic_Us is the most famous co - working space in Madrid . Embodiment of open collaborative space , this co - working place offers freelancers , startups and other professionals fully equipped offices , meeting rooms and access to their training programs . Their combination of mixed ikea furniture , Japanese design and hammocks come in support of the creative and lively character of the space . Excellent for professional development and networking opportunities . Cost : Different packages available at different location , varying from EUR135 to EUR1,350 . Shed Coworking - Shed Coworking is practical and affordable co - working space , offering full amenities and workshops to keep you informed . Cozy lounge , comfy chairs and outdoor garden to keep you motivated . Home to a great startup community with which you can exchange ideas and search for new talent . Described as surrounded with positive vibe and the possibility to reinvent yourself , so If you are looking for productive and engaging community , this is it . Cost : Full packages vary from EUR180 to EUR250 per month . El play - Offering one of the most open , comfortable and luminous offices in Madrid , El play is a combination of colors , inspiration and good vibes . With colorful sofas and walls , multiple floors , spacious shared spaces , full services and plenty of lounge areas around , this coworking space will boost your productivity and fast forward your idea . Cost : Full package starts at EUR225 per month . La Nave - La Nave is a hub for creative , independent minds spread over 250 square meters in the heart of Madrid . With independent offices , shared spaces , meeting rooms and workspace areas for startups , entrepreneurs , advertising specialists and freelancers , La nave has something for everyone . Their beautifully designed work spaces will inspire you to get in and get busy and you will witness beautiful synergy among like minded professionals from various backgrounds . Cost : Full package starts at EUR220 per month . Impact Hub - Known for its vibrant community , meaningful programs and an inspiring space to help you fast forward you idea . Like every other Impact Hub , the Madrid branch will offer you a dynamic community of like - minded brains and dynamic atmosphere where you can collaborate and grow . It offers a collaborative space , supportive working environment and all the necessary equipment . Cost : Full package starts at EUR250 per month . Colabora Coworking - With their high speed internet , freshly brewed coffee and fully equipped meeting rooms with audio and video conferencing , Colabora Coworking makes sure your time and productivity is well spent . Known to provide advice in relation to taxation , labor , patent and trademark registration or whatever else you may require . A lounge chill out area and bar are available once the work is done and language courses for those who want to expand their horizons . Cost : Full package starts at EUR230 per month . The underground den - The underground den is all about community , space and services . It provides 24/7 access to shared workspace and private meeting rooms , equipped with the latest technology , access to a supportive community of like - minded entrepreneurs , events , workshops , affordable professional services and business support . As a business center and a co - working space , they offer the ideal environment for scaling your idea and creating strong networking opportunities . Cost : Full package starts at EUR275 per month . Cool inquieto - Whether you are a developer , designer , consultant , or any other profession , you can use Cool inquieto as your base . This co - working space is offering shared and dedicated work spaces to meet your business and networking needs , office equipment , super fast wi - fi and fresh coffee to keep you motivated . Known to encourage collaborative projects among its tenants . Cost : Full package varies from EUR140 to EUR175 per month . Freeland innovation center - Fostering innovation and positive thinking , Freeland innovation center will offer you a well - networked and vibrant community in combination with mentor interactions . You can get legal / tax / social insurance advice if you need it , or your accounting done for you , if you want . You will literally be surrounded by resources to take advantage of and plenty of like - minded individuals . Cost : Full package varies from EUR45 to EUR330 per month depending on person / group . Community Coworking - All co - working enthusiasts in Madrid can access fully furnished co - working spaces with access to all the basic services they need to stay connected and focus on things that matter to their business at Community Coworking . Placed in white and green interior with comfy , ergonomic chairs and non stop coffee , Community Coworking is the place to get your work done , but also to get your ideas happening , to think and rethink , collaborate and share . Cost : Full packages vary from EUR109 to EUR169 per month .