With spring in the air , it 's nice to get outside and enjoy some fresh air away from the hustle and bustle of daily stressors , particularly when navigating that hectic startup life . For those that need to carry their phones during their R&R time , there are some fun apps to help you learn more about the world around us . Each week , Tech . Co highlights new startups that are innovating their way into users ' hands and doing something infectiously awesome . This week , we 're looking at a wide range of startup apps and products , from universal smart buttons to cosmic apps with an eclipse detector . Tapdo is a smart button that lets you control technology with single - touch , personalized biometric interactions . It 's a single button that you wear around your wrist , but it registers all of your different fingerprints separately , meaning you can assign multiple different functions to the one Tapdo button . It also registers different parts of each finger , giving you the capability of assigning more than five different functions . Tapdo is great for smartphone users wanting to integrate smart tech into their home and use their phone while driving without breaking the law . Tapdo is powered by Bluetooth LE and is equipped with vibration feedback . Tapdo can be equipped anywhere for easy access , including a wristband . It works to control apps , music , smart home tech , and so much more . The Cosmic Watch app shows the local time at every single location on the globe with a single touch . Go to the app and touch anywhere on the globe , and Cosmic Watch will tell you the local time . Cosmic Watch also acts as an astronomical navigator , an armillary sphere , a radix chart , time travel machine , solar system simulator , and eclipse detector . Cosmic Watch is a fun , educational way to learn about the relationship between time and the celestial dynamics . Parihug gives you the opportunity to show your physical affection to far - away loved ones . They 're teddy bears that are electronically pair - able and allow people far away from each other to hug each other . Once one person hugs their teddy bear , the other person will receive a vibration from their teddy bear indicating that they received a hug . Cairn is an app designed for hikers and outdoor explorers who like to wander into places with no cell reception . Worried about a loved one going into the unknown wilderness ? Have no fear : Carin tracks their location even in dead zones and uploads it so designated safety contacts can always keep an eye on them in case of danger . Carin also does some other cool stuff , like fitness stats , elevation , and mapping the closest place to go for cell reception . StoryTerrace brings your story to life by pairing you with a professional writer to create your very own biography . If you 've got a story to tell , signing up with StoryTerrace will pair you with one of their professionally published writers to listen and interview you and create a beautiful product based on what you tell them . StoryTerrace makes a wonderful gift to parents , grandparents , and other loved ones . StoryTerrace also opens up the possibility of people crowdsourcing writing projects that they want to see come to fruition from somebody they think is interesting . Read more about startups here at Tech . Co . This is our new , premium Weekly Spotlight Announcement Series . Learn more about how your startup or crowdfunding project can be included and reach thousands of readers around the country , including influencers , investors and more .