About 200,000 people transition out of military service annually , and according to the Institute for Veterans and Military Families , close to half find that their main challenge is adapting to civilian culture . U.S. veterans seeking to get into business for themselves have a support network from both veteran groups and the entrepreneurial community . There are even entire nonprofits for pairing the two worlds , like Bunker Labs or Patriot Boot Camp . Why do veterans and entrepreneurial ventures go together so naturally ? Because plenty of skills apply in both worlds . I interviewed Bart Lomont , cofounder of lawn care service Robin , in order to learn more about the connections between the two . Here 's a quick look at the skill set a veteran can rely on for entrepreneurial success : When you are self - employed , there is n't necessarily a guide to help you along the way , and on a daily basis , you 'll need to make time - sensitive decisions that can impact your company . " Similar to my experience in the military , there is no playbook or road map to life in a startup , " Bart explains . " Each day , I encounter problems that nobody has ever faced before and it 's my job to figure them out . We do n't have time to wait on others to figure out the issues . We train our team to think on their feet and make decisions to the best of their ability , based on the information they have . " In the military , communication is the most critical components to a successful mission and the ability to communicate effectively to your team can also help while building your business . " Clear , concise communication is a critical attribute in our organization , " Bart says . " Whether you are communicating with a customer , a lawn crew , or even a fellow Robin employee , you should be able to get your point across in under three sentences . Anything more than that is a waste of both parties ' time and needs work . " In the military and when you own a business , being accountable for one 's work and actions can help the team understand their role and outcome goals . As Bart tells it : " We also place a focus on accountability -- no matter what the operation , it is very clear who is in charge and they know from the beginning what is expected of them . " There are many twists and turns to building a business and the ability to adapt to the unexpected things that come your way and maintain a steady head is a valuable transitional skill for veterans .   If Bart could go back in time to the start of his career , he 'd tell himself to stop worrying about the ' what - ifs . ' " When you set out to disrupt an industry as large as the $ 40 billion landscaping market , you are going to run into a lot of unknowns , " he says . " You can never answer all of the questions until you are faced with them , so getting some real - world experience ( in our case this was getting robotic mowers out into the field with real customers for their first ever tests on US soil ) is invaluable . A startup 's greatest advantage is its adaptability . We do n't have to run decisions through committees and receive approval from different departments . We can make decisions in the field that make an immediate impact and gain us considerable advantages over the competition . " Robin proves that Bart and his co - founder Justin Crandall know how to adapt : The company recently launched the nation 's first robotic lawn care service . One of the biggest core values of the military is teamwork and it 's the most important component to help a unit complete a mission . For Bart and his cofounder Justin , they knew that teamwork includes individuals who have the experience and willing to help others succeed in their company mission . Robin had a connection to a local Bunker Labs , a 501(c)(3 ) nonprofit that supports early phase veteran - owned startups , and the cofounders reached out for help . " Bunker Labs has been a great teammate and true partner in much of our success to date , " Bart says . " Between introductions to potential investors , many new networking opportunities , and evening opening up new doors to marketing opportunities -- they have stayed true to their mission and play a valuable role in helping to advance veteran entrepreneurship . " Bunker Labs is heading in the second year of a two - year , $ 1.5 million commitment from JPMorgan Chase to launch a 10-month tour to hold events and open new chapters across the U.S. Any veteran entrepreneurs hoping to start a business already has the experience and skills to succeed and need to remember to leverage available networks . A great place to start building a network is at Startup Week where you can meet other entrepreneurs or advisors who can help you achieve your company mission . This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .