Pluralsight is a learning and development startup from Utah which focuses on bite - size training courses for IT professionals . The cloud - based platform has more than 5,000 video courses across a range of technical skills and proficiencies , from Angular to XML . Technical courses are broken up across seven specialities : software development , IT ops , data , creative industries , business , manufacturing and design , architecture and construction . Popular courses include Java and Python fundamentals , C # and advanced Javascript .   Each technical tutorial is authored by an expert in the field who is paid commission depending on how often the video is viewed . Pluralsight has more than 800 authors , some of whom earn millions of dollars in commission every year , with the average being between forty and fifty thousand dollars a year . Pluralsight is the only unicorn on this list after completing a massive $ 135 million ( PS94 m ) Series B funding round in August 2014 , putting the company very close to a $ 1 billion valuation . Hired is flipping the traditional recruiter - candidate relationship on its head by giving desirable candidates a platform to sell themselves and wait for employers to apply to them . Hired says that it : " Selects the top five to seven per cent of candidates through a combination of human curation and machine learning algorithms before matching them with relevant interview opportunities . The Silicon Valley - startup will pair you with a " talent advocate " to help polish your profile and negotiate with potential employers . Hired is free for candidates and is looking to appeal to employers by offering access to high quality , high intent candidates , generally in the tech and sales sectors . Hired then charges 15 percent of the hire 's first year base salary or 2 percent of the hire 's annual salary per month for their first ten months of employment . The platform is currently available on an invite only basis ( you can request one ) for tech , sales and marketing roles in London and key US cities . Hired claims to have 2,000 plus companies already using the platform . Hired has raised more than $ 100 million ( PS80 m ) in funding to date , including a $ 30 million extension to its Series C round in November 2016 led by Glenmede Trust and Ontario Pension Board . Silicon Valley startup Gild has been steadily building a database of tens of millions of professionals which incorporates data from across the internet . This includes social media output and GitHub code contributions , so the platform can build up as full a picture of candidates as possible . Gild even has its own CRM ( Candidate Relationship Management ) platform for recruiters to pool and keep track of candidates , and automate time - consuming admin skills . Gild utilises this data driven approach and identifies ideal candidates for openings and applies expertise and demand ratings , as well as predictive analytics , to speed up the recruitment process . Gild already counts BuzzFeed , Facebook , HBO and Microsoft as customers and completed its Series B funding round back in June 2014 to the tune of $ 13.5 million ( PS9.5 million ) , led by Menlo Ventures . Krishan Meetoo , along with his co - founder Carl Dawson , set up Proversity to provide a learning and development environment " across the employee lifecycle , from attracting talent through to on boarding them by providing the professional and soft skills they need for the role . So try before you buy with candidates , " Meetoo said . London - based Proversity is working in the corporate learning space , providing an on - demand mobile platform that brings employee attraction , recruitment and retention into one place . Candidates are given a structured learning programme , with each course being designed on a bespoke basis depending on the employer needs . Content can range from text , photos , motion graphics , video walkthroughs and various forms of assessment , from essays to simple check boxes . Proversity raised $ 1.6 million ( PS1 million ) in investment from Czech Republic fund RSBC Venture Capital in November 2015 and is planning a PS5 - 8 million Series A round this year as it expands into the USA , Middle East and ASEAN markets . It has already worked with Network Rail and the Bank of England to attract and train new employees . Co - founders Alex Hanson - Smith and Matt de la Hey were both working in hospitality during the summer away from University when the idea for Inploi started to germinate . Hanson - Smith told Techworld : " Finding work was way too hard . We were walking around with hard copies of CVs , looking for signs in windows . Or you would have to go to an agency and wait three weeks for a training day . The frustration of that process - in the age of Uber and Deliveroo - made it dawn on us that this was an inefficient marketplace . " Instead of posting to job boards or using agencies , Inploi allows employers to engage with interested workers direct on their platform . By integrating messaging ( built on Firebase ) and payments platforms ( built on Stripe Connect ) within the app itself , small to medium sized employers can simplify their hiring processes for short and part time workers . Posting a job is free and Inploi adds a ten percent service charge to employers for any wages paid on their platform for short term work . For longer term work , the company charges depending on the number of employees a company connects with , which is free up to five and then on a sliding scale starting at PS100 a month for nine connections . Inploi came out of Beta in December 2016 and is available on web , iOS and Android . It already counts 280 employers signed up , including Michelin - starred Alyn Williams at the Westbury , the Corbin and King group and Edwardian Hotels . Inploi has been funded from angel investors , friends and family so far , with the startup looking for a " substantial " funding round to expand beyond London this year . Saberr works by surveying potential hires and existing staff and applies an algorithm to define a ' resonance score ' which the startup claims can predict how well a team will work together . Saberr 's survey concentrates on deep values rather than shared interests to define if a candidate is a good fit for your company culture . Managers will then receive a breakdown of compatibility scores ranging from 0 - 100 ( 100 being the most compatible ) for each co - worker so that better teams can be formed . This approach is naturally appealing to startups that have inherently small teams but enterprise customers like Capco and Coca Cola have been testing the Saberr platform to predict team performance . In terms of funding , founder Alistair Shepherd told Techworld.com : " For us it does n't make sense to take VC capital , " he says . " There 's lots of interest but we are making the conscious decision not to take it . " However , in April 2016 the startup took a PS1 million funding round led by Angel CoFund . This early - stage startup was one of the 25 companies to pitch at Entrepreneur First 's massive Demo Day in March 2016 . Quantize is looking to apply machine learning to online CVs to identify applicants ' hard and soft skills and match them to existing top - performers within the organisation , in the hope of predicting future success . How it works in practice is Quantize will come in and set your organisation up with an account manager before plugging your applicant tracking system ( ATS ) and existing performance data into an API which , using Quantize 's algorithm , scores and prioritises potential candidates according to measures like selection likelihood , turnover likelihood and performance forecasts via a dashboard . Having just pitched at the EF demo day Quantize is still in the seed - funding stage , but looks to have a fully functioning product which is just waiting for investment and customers . Co - founder and ex - Harvard and LinkedIn alum Khary Francis claims to already be piloting with a multi - national recruitment agency which counts Tesco as a client . Debut is a native mobile app aimed at connecting students with graduate scheme , internship and job opportunities in their field . Conversely employers are able to search through and cherry pick from a list of potential candidates . Debut also pulls in employer - sponsored games that can lead to internships , as well as a wealth of documentation and employment hints and tips . Simply download the app and build a profile ( personal details , important causes , exam results , degree ) and start browsing jobs by sector , salary , role and location . Employers can then contact candidates through the ' talent spots ' messenger tab . Employers listed on the Debut banner already include Barclays , BT , Credit Suisse , Microsoft and Google . Founded by two software engineers in 2008 , Vivek Ravisankar and Hari Karunanidhi wanted to be spending more time on code and less time interviewing engineers . Plus they noticed that the traditional CV - to - interview recruitment model just did n't work for finding great programmers .   The result was a set of CodeChallenges , which eventually became the backbone for HackerRank , an online portal for delivering online tests which help find the best coders by placing them in real - world situations . This allows companies to hire developers on technical skill and merit rather than how well they promote themselves . HackerRank also doubles up as a portal for skills challenges so that developers can hone their skills whenever they want . HackerRank has raised just short of $ 20 million in funding so far , and lists tech giants Facebook and Airbnb as customers . Talent Rank is an online learning and development ( L&D ) environment . The platform wants to make candidate assessment smarter and more engaging by building bite - size online challenges that identify core competencies beyond CVs and interviews . Founder Arjun Hassard told Techworld.com that Talent Rank is very much inspired by US - based Hacker Rank , except : " They are coder first and we are analyst , or candidate , first . " " There 's a paradigm shift here from passively trying to absorb insight on the candidate to conscious volunteering of information through engaging programmes , tournaments or internships . So you 're not trying to paint a picture based on their personal life , you are getting them into an environment where they can develop and exhibit certain competencies that you care about . " Talent Rank is still in the pre - launch phase and is running closed trials with specific partners . The London - based startup has been predominantly funded by friends , family and a fair amount of bootstrapping so far . Talent Rank is attracting lots of interest in the London startup scene and from major employers in key verticals though , according to Hassard , and has moved into Accenture 's 2016 fintech Innovation Lab .