Zapier cofounders , right to left : Wade Foster , Bryan Helmig , and Mike Knoop , circa 2012 . Zapier Back in March , a company called Zapier made headlines when it announced it would pay $ 10,000 in moving expenses for new employees to leave the expensive San Francisco Bay Area -- the opposite of how it usually works . Now , Zapier CEO Wade Foster tells Business Insider , this " de - location " offer garnered Zapier 1,167 job applications in 10 days , a 32% increase from their normal rate . ( He also says that " Zapier " rhymes with " happier , " in case you were wondering . ) In general , Foster says , the de - location idea is just an extension of what makes Zapier so great : The company 's 85-person team all works remotely from their homes all across the globe . You do n't need to live in San Francisco to be a tech genius , or New York , or Austin , so why should you live anywhere if you do n't want to ? It helps with recruiting , Foster says , since candidates do n't have to be in any one city to be considered for a position , and it keeps employees happy and productive by letting them live where and how they 'd like -- especially since they can draw a Silicon Valley salary without having to live somewhere with sky - high rent . A map showing where around the world Zapier employees live and work . Zapier " For us , it 's more about letting [ employees ] set up the life they want , " says Foster . " There 's massive amounts of smart people all over the world . " That philosophy has led Zapier , a tool for integrating business software together , to some success . Foster tells Business Insider that Zapier is on a $ 20 million annualized run rate , a measure of how much revenue it expects to generate in a year . Furthermore , he says , Zapier has been profitable since 2014 , after taking a relatively meager $ 1.3 million back in 2012 . And today , Zapier is introducing a new product for businesses to keep it going . Zapier started back in 2011 as a side hustle -- Foster and his cofounders Mike Knoop and Bryan Helmig worked on it nights and weekends . Knoop and Helmig met because , at the time , they were the only people on HackerNews from Columbus , Missouri ; Helmig and Foster met when they were in a Jazz quartet together . A few months in , and the team had enough users and revenue to get accepted into Silicon Valley 's famed Y Combinator startup mentorship program , and moved to California . The Zapier team meets in Texas for their 2017 team offsite . Zapier While the three cofounders ended up settling in the San Francisco Bay Area , they decided not to open a formal office , but instead go the " all - remote " route . The idea was to streamline the business as much as possible in the early days , and the idea stuck . Foster says that this philosophy has also helped keep the company focused : With only that $ 1.3 million in funding under its belt , Zapier has never given up control to outside investors , which helps the company stay focused on what it does best . " When you raise money , there 's a tendency to try to be everything to everybody , " says Foster . What Zapier actually does is help connect one piece of software or a web service to another . For instance , to use a Zapier example , you could have every single e - mail attachment from Gmail copied into your Dropbox , and then alert you in Slack that you have a new file to review . It 's similar to the popular IFTTT service , but with more of a focus on work software , and Foster says that there are over 800 pieces of software that you can " zap " together from Zapier . That includes Facebook Pages , Microsoft Office 365 , and GitHub . The new Zapier for Teams makes it easier to use the service as , well , part of a team . If you come up with a killer workflow -- say , to automatically e - mail every new hire all their new paperwork , while simultaneously sending a welcome message in Slack -- you can share it with your coworkers . Example Zapier " Zap " integrations Zapier Zapier is in the right place at the right time , Foster says , because the Silicon Valley tech boom has led to a whole range of startups making software that 's hyper - specialized for different departments and job functions . Zapier presents a way to manage the chaos and have all those disparate tools work with each other . " The cost of starting companies is going down , " says Foster . " It 's easier than ever to target a specific vertical . " And with so many apps , and so much software , coming to the workplace , Foster says that Zapier is a great way for products to find customers , and for customers to find products . " It 's kind of a no - brainer for companies to hook into Zapier , " says Foster .