In recent years , there has been an increase in celebrity investing of tech startups . Although official statistics are hard to come by , as a group , these investors are putting in tens of millions of dollars to work each year . From Hollywood stars to professional athletes , market participants have included Ashton Kutscher , Leonardo DiCaprio , Lebron James and Shaquille O'Neill . There have also been tech startup investments made companies that are involved in the production of entertainment , like Disney , Comcast , WME Ventures and CAA .   A question I often hear from entrepreneurs is whether taking in such money really provides any additional value ? In the past several years , I have been fortunate enough to get a front - line view on this very topic as I have been active in startups which have received investments from a range of performers and public figures such as Beyonce , Troy Carter , Carmelo Anthony and Barbara Corcoran . Given the choice , private companies that can secure celebrity capital can benefit in five ways . By definition , many celebrities have prominent public profiles and substantial social media followings that can number in the millions ( Ronaldo has 48MM Twitter followers alone ) . Generally speaking , when they disclose an investment , it tends to get covered in the business and tech press . This can help a startup that 's trying to make a name for itself gain market recognition and provide PR value that would be expensive or difficult to achieve otherwise . Such heightened awareness tends to get noticed by many of the company 's important stakeholders , including potential business partners , customers , investors and employees . If a celebrity investor is perceived as strategic , his or her involvement can also help a company close its round , either by helping lure other celebrity investors ( as they say , birds of a feather flock together ) or financial investors . Even if the strategic value of the investor is not obvious , do n't underestimate the drawing power a celebrity investor has with potential co - investors who 'd like to get a seat at the table , and who want to chat up the fact that they have co - invested with Bono or Ashton Kutcher . While it likely wo n't   help them get tickets to a concert or a dinner party invitation , it can help bolster their profile in the investment community by increasing their " cool factor " .   Since many of these types of investors generate tons of media impressions and have a social network that tends to be made up of other influencers , they can be helpful in terms of opening up doors to folks in your industry . Imagine a sports drink or the latest social networking or communication app that have mass appeal . Many celebrity investors , and their business managers , have access to television networks , advertisers , agencies and other business organizations that they regularly interact with . For the right company , these relationships can open up new doors or may even help accelerate discussions .   Many celebrities invest in consumer products or tech because this is what they 're familiar with the most , and it 's an area where they can have real impact . If your company sells a product to consumers , a celebrity can help drive bursts of traffic to your web and mobile sites . This can drive short - term sales and be good for SEO and the collection of consumer information , like email addresses . Entrepreneurs should understand that the organic reach that this can provide is not a substitute for a sustainable and effective marketing strategy . But it does tend to yield consumer interactions that should be capitalized upon . It may be a bit more subtle , but an investment by an individual or firm that is widely recognized can also boost employee morale . In addition to serving as another form of validation , it provides a sense of momentum that sometimes can make employees feel like they are part of something special . The more the celebrity associates him or herself with the product , the stronger the affinity that employees may feel . Although this will not offset deeply - rooted problems with company culture or morale , it can provide a timely , albeit temporary , rallying point for staff . So , if you are in the hunt for capital , and spark interest from a celebrity investor , once the flattery wears off , keep in mind the different ways their involvement can help your business hit a new chord . Arie Abecassis is a startup entrepreneur and investor based in New York City . He is a guest instructor at General Assembly and actively serves as an advisor or board member to a variety of tech startups including SeatGeek , Adaptly and Bizne ...