Marry AI with mobile commerce and what you get is a huge competitive advantage . Join the latest VB Live event to learn why that is , where to start , and how to get your C - suite on board -- plus get an insider 's look at the top insights from the latest Bot Insight consumer study . Register here for free . " A lot of times you think of AI commerce and conversational commerce as one and the same , " says Jonathan Jarvis , CEO of Token , the end - to - end gift - giving service powered by machine learning . " But I actually think there 's a huge role to play for AI and machine learning in commerce outside of a messaging interface or messaging apps . " The first wave of assisted commerce has been laser - focused on conversational commerce in messaging interfaces , Jarvis points out . " Because everyone 's spending their time in messaging apps , it seemed to make a lot of sense to build in commerce functionality in that way , " he says . " There are some use cases where that 's really good , but it 's surprising is how many use cases there are where it 's really difficult [ using ] that model . " He points to the rise of the AI - powered assistant landscape : consumers have basic assistants at their fingertips , with Siri on iOS , Google on Android , and even Cortana on Microsoft . " My thesis is that you 'll have a whole team of specialized services and assistants that your general assistant can broker relationships with , " Jarvis says , which you already start to see with assistants like Alexa , which can queue up your Spotify playlists or check your fantasy football league on Yahoo . " So you can imagine having your general assistant , and then specialized assistants for everything from getting food delivered to you , to transporting you somewhere , to getting a gift delivered for you , " he says . " We 've identified that as an emerging landscape at Token , and we want to own a vertical , essentially , and be the best at that . " But he notes that it is intensely difficult to build an assistant that works reliably without a specialization . " What you find is that your AI is as good as the data set that you have , and it 's really hard to create good data sets when you have really really varied use cases , " says Jarvis . " My main piece of advice would be to find a really focused use case where it 's really appropriate to use it , and then have the discipline to remain focused with it . " " You 'd be surprised at how focused you can get , " he adds , " and you 'd probably get more bang for your buck if you 're doing smaller , more focused things with it . " For more on how AI can revolutionize scale in commerce , how to build out powerful , cost - effective machine learning platforms , and more , do n't miss this VB Live event ! Do n't miss out ! Register here for free . In this VB Live event , you 'll : Speakers :