Lumen Learning CEO Kim Thanos . Photo via Lumen Learning .   Portland - based Lumen Learning today announced a $ 3.75 million Series A investment round and a new partnership with Follett to expand the distribution of its open digital education course materials . Follett , which manages course materials delivery for more than 1,200 college and universities , participated in the Series A round , as did previous investors Portland Seed Fund and Seattle - based Alliance of Angels . Total funding for the 5-year - old company is $ 6.3 million to date . Founded in 2012 by Kim Thanos and David Wiley , Lumen Learning helps students at more than 100 institutions save on traditional textbook costs by offering open education resources ( OER ) for popular college courses . OER are available under public domain or have been released under a copyright license and include full courses , course materials , videos , tests , and more . Now Lumen Learning 's courseware will be available to students attending schools that work with Follett to distribute course material . Students pay a Lumen support fee of $ 10-$25 via the campus bookstore to access the customizable courseware , which can be integrated into a school 's existing learning management system . Lumen Learning takes advantage of the millions of dollars that government , foundations , and other educational organizations have invested in OER and designs its own low - cost learning materials . " Working in the higher education market , our secret sauce is being a mission - driven organization filled with people -- many of them from the academic world -- who are passionate about improving learning and offering affordable access to education for all students , " Lumen Learning CEO Kim Thanos told GeekWire . " This means we 're committed to developing products that actually improve learning , and that work effectively in real classrooms filled with students and teachers struggling with real - world problems : lack of time , tight funding , competing priorities , under - preparation for the college environment , and so forth . " Lumen Learning was previously a grantee in the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 's Next Generation Learning Challenge and Next Generation Courseware Challenge programs . The company employs 28 people .