Nothing beats a good night of pub trivia , except maybe testing your knowledge through an app , in your own time , without having to look at your opponent .   So , of course , there 's no shortage of trivia apps in the market , but Perth 's QuizJam , created by startup Gravy Gaming , is trying its hand by creating a consumer platform and an enterprise platform side by side .   Cofounded by Joel Steel and Glenn Morton , the startup sought to go beyond the consumer market early , creating a QuizJam for Teams platform for organisations .   Steel explained , " QuizJam for Teams enables an organisation to seamlessly build its own trivia tournaments and gamified surveys within a white - labelled private portal which only its employees can access . Employees are incentivised to play and collect badges , climb the leaderboards and take on their fellow employees to earn in - app currency which they will soon be able to trade for prizes . "   The platform was first born as QuizAid , with the idea first revolving around working with charities and other not - for - profits to raise awareness and funds for their cause .   However , Steel said after feedback from Apple regarding its donation guidelines , the startup decided to pivot , with a view to coming back to help charities once it 's more established and " can navigate a way around the red tape " .   After putting aside the QuizAid idea , Steel said that for QuizJam for Teams came after lengthy discussions with different organisations . Common themes arose around leaders wanting to find a fun and engaging way to " connect the dots " with employees regarding training , learning , and development .   " Specific research showed us that 70 percent of all training delivered is forgotten the day after being undertaken , meaning that there 's a significant amount of work that needs to be addressed in regards to retention and the strategy around it , " Steel said . An organisation signing up can log onto the customer portal and easily create a trivia tournament or survey , then push it out to employees through in - app notifications or by sending the relevant team a six - digit code they can use to play that specific tournament .   " Our target market is innovative , forward - thinking organisations with over 100 employees . Ideally they would be geographically spread , as the QuizJam platform can help bring teams together and help improve company culture and team building , " Steel said .   While the Commonwealth Bank recently completed a trial of QuizJam for Teams , the startup 's biggest market so far is the building and construction industry , where QuizJam for Teams is being used to increase engagement and training retention around health and safety , Steel said .   Looking at the QuizJam Classic , or consumer , product , after downloading the app a user can sign on and start competing in global tournaments , answering blocks of questions at their own pace . Points are awarded for speed and accuracy , with players receiving badges for various achievements .   Players can buy ' assists ' - getting another go at a question they got wrong , getting an extra three seconds on the clock to answer a question , or getting a 50/50 shot at an answer .   According to Steel , the app has amassed 28,000 users and 38,000 questions so far . Brands able to create or sponsor specific tournaments , with the likes of the West Coast Eagles looking at tournaments as a way to boost fan engagement .      To further its growth , QuizJam joined the Plus Eight accelerator in Perth after meeting its entrepreneur in residence , Tim Brewer in San Francisco a few months ago .   " We have already got so much out of the accelerator , including an increased level of focus as being surrounded by like - minded people who are all striving to go 10 percent faster every week can only bring positive outcomes . We 've also been introduced to world - class mentors and education programs which we would never get access to in Perth , or Australia for that matter , " Steel said . The startup recently brought on Gary Walker , cofounder of Fetch TV , as non - executive director . It also last month partnered with the Australian arm of global IQ society Mensa to create a ' Mensa vs the World ' tournament .   Geoff Russell , Australian Recruiting Officer at Mensa , said the QuizJam platform allows the organisation to both fulfil key criteria and encourage high - level thinking among thousands of " undiscovered intellectuals " .    " The public can measure themselves and be encouraged to push their minds . It 's a win - win , " Russell said . " We have high hopes that the QuizJam model can reach out and stimulate the minds of thousands of people who would otherwise not consider joining Mensa . There are vast numbers of people who have no idea how good they are , or could be . " There 's no shortage of trivia apps out there , or even survey or employee training and engagement platforms for organisations , however Steel believes " no one is doing what we are doing and offering the ease of implementation , gamification and minimal barriers to entry like we do " . Having raised $ 900,000 in funding to date , the startup is looking to raise a further $ 1.2 million to put its whole focus into growing the QuizJam for Teams business . Its goal , Steel said , is to reach $ 1 million in annual recurring revenue by the end of the 2017/18 financial year .   