At the EIT Digital Challenge 2016 , which ended in December of 2016 , startups were granted access to EIT Digital 's innovation network and the chance to join the EIT Digital Accelerator . The category winners also had the chance to win a cash prize of up to EUR50,000 . From a total of 234 entries from 25 EU countries , EIT Digital awarded and announced the best 16 companies last month . The Munich - based IoT startup ProGlove was one of the winners of the category " Digital Industry " . ProGlove develops smart gloves that enhance workers ' most important tools : their hands . Sensors and scanners embedded in the gloves enable manufacturing and logistics staff to work faster and more safely . The system alerts workers immediately to operational errors and allows the automatic recording of workflow and process compliance data . In 2016 , the Internet of Things startup ProGlove successfully closed a Series A funding round of $ 2.2 million to grow the team and to successfully launch its product . This week we touched base with the ProGlove founder Paul Gunther ( the guy on the left ; picture above ) to learn more about the IoT startup and its future plans . Enjoy the interview : How did you ( or your co - founders ) come up with the idea for ProGlove and how did it all start ? During my studies I worked as a tour guide in BMW 's Munich plant . By walking everyday through the plant I was able to get a deeper understanding of automotive production . I learned two things : It is all about efficiency , every second saved is a major success . And everyone was wearing gloves for protection . When we later thought about wearables the first thing that came to my mind was the automotive industry . Let 's make a glove smart ! It could improve efficiency and everyone is used to gloves already . By improving the daily tasks of thousands on the shopfloor it would prove much more useful than any consumer wearable like fitness trackers . What were the main stumbling blocks within the first two years and what would you do differently from today 's perspective ? We thought too early that we have a product / market fit and started developing a much too complex product . We then realized that with something much simpler we can solve the same problems of our customers . Another hurdle we had to overcome was the first venture round . Investors in Germany seem to prefer software over hardware startups . In May 2016 we found the perfect mix of German and US investors and closed our first venture round with Intel Capital , Bayern Kapital and Gettylab .   What is ProGlove 's unique value proposition that sets it apart from its competitors ? ProGlove helps the customer to handle work more efficient and with a higher process quality , thanks to new data points . Our customers see ProGlove as a comprehensive solution for the instant start of Industry 4.0 . What are the next steps and future plans for ProGlove ? We think that nevertheless how many automatic processes you put in , workers are still the most crucial part of the industrial process . Our devices can be the connection point between the human workforce and digitized processes . Therefore we are looking into all kind of technology on top of barcode scanning for our next product . A logical step would be a display unit to provide more information for the worker e.g. for tasks in the warehouse . How is your experience with Munich as a location to start a company ? We had a lot of discussion if we should move part of the team to the US in the beginning . We stayed in Munich and we never regretted it . We got a lot of help from UnternehmerTUM with its Techfounders Accelerator . There is also all the manufacturing for our prototypes and the final product in Munich . This helped us a lot getting the first batch into production - if there is a problem we can be there within 30 minutes . Furthermore we have a lot of talent in Munich and we can learn from other local hardware startups like tado . What is it like working at ProGlove ? The most important value we have in our team is humor . It makes everything way easier . Once we got complaints from a neighbor because our embedded developer was laughing so loud . We are currently looking for Engineers , Developers , Designers , Sales guys and Interns to join our team .