Samsung NEXT -- formerly Samsung Global Innovation Center -- announced at the Consumer Electronics Show ( CES ) the creation of the Samsung NEXT Fund , a $ 150 m venture capital investment fund , to increase Samsung 's global support of early stage startups pursuing advanced software and services innovation .   The fund enables Samsung NEXT to build upon its multi - stage global innovation platform to empower tech entrepreneurs with funding , resources and deep - domain expertise . " We see software and services becoming a core part of Samsung Electronics ' DNA , and startups are key to achieving this vision , " said David Eun , president and founder of Samsung NEXT . " Samsung continues to embrace entrepreneurship at all levels and this Fund shows our unwavering commitment to support great startups worldwide . " The fund targets pre - Seed to Series B investments with a focus on virtual reality , artificial intelligence , IoT and other new frontier technologies . Companies that have received capital from the Fund so far include : Converge Industries , Dashbot , Entry Point VR , Filament , Intezer , LiquidSky , Otto Radio , 2Sens , SafeDK and Virtru . Brendon Kim , VP and Managing Director of Samsung NEXT Ventures , added , " Our investments bring the power of the Samsung platform to startups to accelerate their growth and ultimately their success . The Samsung NEXT Fund expands our global reach and capabilities , while increasing Samsung 's access to more great ideas , products and talent . " In September last year , Samsung NEXT launched its newest office in Tel Aviv . The new location is the fifth for the organization , which currently has teams in Mountain View , New York , San Francisco and Korea . Samsung NEXT will open additional locations in 2017 . " We 're very passionate about partnering with startups and developing meaningful relationships in startup ecosystems around the world , " said Emily Becher , Managing Director of Samsung NEXT Start and head of Samsung NEXT 's international expansion . " We leverage local experts to fuel traction and drive scale for startups right where they are . " To coincide with Samsung NEXT 's international expansion and launch of the fund , the company has initiated its first major rebrand effort which includes the renaming of its organization to Samsung NEXT and the release of a new logo and website . With the rebrand , the company 's goal is to simplify its identity and clarify its message and mission .   