Startup lust is everywhere and in the same vein as bathroom mould , it ca n't just be ignored forever . In the interest of sustaining a metaphor - insipid , green greed is growing , packaged as an opportunity to innovate and disrupt . Facebook groups are filled with wanna - be founders who , like digital gangsters , hold the blogosphere ransom with hollow buzzwords and self - congratulatory promotion in their desperate search to scale and get traction . There 's a sudden influx of overnight millionaires promising to add zeros to your bottom line by following them like a moronic messiah . They are germinating in a contagious sprouting of insincere intentions . If you 're a passionless , lazy wantrepreneur who gets turned on by the stink of money then do n't read on ; there are no one - liners you can hashtag . Incubators are serving as wellness retreats for wantrepreneurs . They 've become temples where over - ambitious , under - experienced founders salivate over success and celebrate debt like it 's their saviour . Even though raising $ 25 million of other people 's money sounds like something to celebrate , in most cases it 's not . Debt is not a celebrity , you do n't want a selfie with it . Change the word ' raise ' to ' dig ' and you 've got a more statistically accurate picture of the reality . Before this begins to resemble a wrathful scorn of a jilted - lover , let 's set the record straight . I 'm not saying do n't start something . I 'm saying , start something that solves something and if the something that you 're trying to solve is your own greed , then disrupt yourself . It seems like , to be a founder in 2017 , you not only need a unicorn - worthy idea , but a personal brand that heralds you as something of an entrepreneurial demigod . Obsession with our own digital reflection has peaked in a mindless amassing of ' followers ' and ' likes ' to prove our concept , but to who ? These shitty vanity metrics need to stop . ' Likes ' are not the foundation of innovation , they 're the one - click stands of validation . Having walked the gamut of entrepreneurship , I know what goes into building , scaling , and exiting a startup . I also know that when I read stories about founders raising yet another round at yet another absurd valuation , I ca n't be the only one calling ' bullshit . ' We all know the difference between revenue and profit but when on record , countless founders conveniently ignore the crater - sized dig - debt - hole that lurks in the shadows of their perfectly curated Instagram feeds . Turning over $ 10 million in your first year of business is impressive - but , if you burnt through $ 25 million to get there , then technically you lost more than you earned . This is not sustainable and more to the point , we need to stop celebrating it . There 's nothing heroic about shitty metrics . To shift our collective obsession with scale and redefine the metrics of success , something needs to change . To start , filter out the bullshit . Next time you interview a founder , ask less about revenue and more about about debt . It 's not about ' debt shaming , ' but cloaking debt in gallantry is deceptive and , quite frankly , a little bit shit . Instead of asking a founder which superfood helps them focus or what inspirational books they 're reading , ask real questions that command real answers . Try harder to find founders that fit less moulds and tick less boxes . Look further to less shiny outliers that buck trends , have no debt and have built something profitable and sustainable . Yes , it can take money to make money but I ca n't help but wonder whether scale is a dirty word and if the celebritisation of ' debt ' is creating opportunity where there is n't any . Do n't even get me started on the fail hard , fail fast rhetoric , because when it comes to founders honestly talking about the tipping point to bankruptcy , there seem to be no heroes*. There are , however , no shortage of stories about founders that have pulled themselves back from the brink to create capital - funded greatness . * Nikki Durkin 's very honest account is a refreshing exception .