Anthony Levandowski . Otto Uber is threatening to fire the engineer at the centre of its legal battle with Alphabet 's self - driving - car firm Waymo unless he hands over documents from his previous employer . Anthony Levandowski previously worked at Waymo , which is owned by Google 's parent company , Alphabet , to help develop autonomous vehicle tech . But he subsequently left to create his own self - driving - truck startup , Otto , which Uber acquired for $ 680 million . Alphabet and Waymo have accused Uber and Otto of stealing Waymo 's trade secrets and intellectual property and of infringing on patents related to lidar , a technology that autonomous vehicles use to " see . " Uber denies the allegations . Waymo is accusing Levandowski of downloading more than 14,000 files while working for the company in 2015 and taking them with him . But Levandowski is refusing to let the devices that might contain the files be searched , asserting his Fifth Amendment right against self - incrimination . Uber has already demoted Levandowski and removed him from any work involving lidar systems at Uber . But after receiving a court order to return any documents taken from Waymo , Uber is threatening to fire Levandowski if he does not cooperate . " We understand that this letter requires you to turn over information wherever located , including but not limited to , your personal devices , and to waive any Fifth Amendment protection you may have , " Uber 's general counsel , Salle Yoo , wrote in a letter on Monday that was made public in a court filing Thursday . " While we have respected your personal liberties , it is our view that the Court 's Order requires us to make these demands of you . " She went on : " If you do not agree to comply with all of the requirements set forth herein , or if you fail to comply in a material manner , then Uber will take adverse employment action against you , which may include termination of your employment and such termination would be for Cause . " But Levandowski 's lawyers say the demand is unconstitutional . They wrote that court order forcing Uber to make the demand of him was " an act by the judicial branch of our federal government compelling an individual to choose between preserving his livelihood and preserving his constitutional rights . " They continued : " Nearly fifty years of Supreme Court precedent forbid the government from putting an individual to such an unconstitutionally coercive choice . " An Uber representative did not immediately comment when contacted by Business Insider . Judge William Alsup , who is overseeing the trial , has also previously referred the case to the US attorney 's office for a potential criminal investigation . The case comes at a critical time for Uber . The ride - hailing company is reeling from multiple scandals , including allegations of sexual harassment at the company , and numerous high - level executives have left in recent months . CEO Travis Kalanick is pinning the future of his company on its self - driving - car unit , and he has said failing to be first to develop the tech could pose an existential threat to Uber . " If we are not tied for first , then the person who is in first , or the entity that 's in first , then rolls out a ride - sharing network that is far cheaper or far higher - quality than Uber 's , then Uber is no longer a thing , " he said .