Back in 2016 , Techstars and Chase for Business teamed up to commission a survey covering 680 startup founders . The topic was the challenges faced by those building a diverse and inclusive company . On top of the report detailing their findings , Techstars and Chase for Business ran a panel at last week 's Tampa Bay Startup Week . The panel was aimed at one of the biggest discrepancies surrounding tech diversity that the survey uncovered : While 72 percent of founders stated that they believe building diversity in their companies is " very or extremely important , " just 23 percent of the respondents said that one benefit of a diverse staff is " improved financial performance . " The panel 's title , " Five Steps to Use to Diversity & Inclusion to Improve Your Bottom Line , " directly addressed this concern by emphasizing the financial benefits of a diverse , inclusive staff . Here 's a look at the report and what the expert panel had to say about it . It is widely known that , as a whole , the tech industry needs to lead the way in their efforts towards diversity and amplify their efforts . The report confirms that , just one in ten startups surveyed qualify as " diversity leaders , " a term for any businesses whose " practices and policies result in a technical staff that includes a minimum of five women or minorities . " Startup founders need to start by studying the phenomenon of racial differences rather than ignore it . One term used to ignore the status quo ? " Colorblindness . " Here 's what Rodney Sampson , Partner and Chairman of Tech Square Labs & Opportunity Ecosystem , said about this issue during the panel : " We want people to be color brave , not color blind . " The proper response is for a company to have an intentional focus on combating systemic issues and not sacrificing quality . " [ Be ] intentional about curating the team . We ca n't ignore the differentials that make us great as a society , " Sampson continued . Potential action areas include encouraging young girls to consider STEM careers , an idea suggested by panelist Joanne Persinger , the Senior Vice President of Information Technology at TechData . Currently , just 27 percent of workers at major STEM companies are women , and there are fewer women in computer science than there were in the 1980s . Rodney also emphasized the need for grants aimed at the retention of college students in STEM majors : " It 's one thing to get them into a computer science or engineering or IT degree in undergrad , but if in that first year they do n't have a support network , they pivot to business or they pivot to marketing . They really need to see what the industry looks like from the other side . Those are programs that you can plug into , " Rodney said . Finally , Erik Smith , Director of Cultural Competence and Inclusion at Valpak , suggested one simple way to be more inclusive : Question whether your company might be over - vetting women or people of color who apply . This survey 's results are perhaps the most essential for a newbie startup founder to understand , as they are the ones about to ramp up hiring . Rachelle Orbibio , Program Director at Techstars and the panel 's moderator , summed this up prior to the panel . Here 's her response to the question of how founders could intentionally develop a diverse culture as they expand their team : " Diversity enhances creativity , innovation , problem solving , and access to talent . These traits are important drivers of financial performance and startup success . As a starting point , founders should visit the microsite and read through the full report . There they 'll find data , resources , and actionable steps towards becoming diversity leaders . But more than that , it 's the right thing to do . [ ... ] If founders build teams with diversity in mind , they will create an inclusive culture from the very beginning . Issues of diversity and inclusion will be addressed organically . Doing it retroactively is much more difficult . " Establishing a diverse company culture is n't an artificial move : It 's a smart way to build a healthy bottom line . Image : WOCinTech This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .