The Socedo team . Photo via Socedo .   Socedo is raising more cash to build out its platform that helps companies target sales leads from social media activity . The Seattle startup today announced a $ 1 million investment from TechStars Ventures , Vulcan Capital , Divergent Ventures and angel investors . Total funding in the 4-year - old company is $ 2.5 million . Socedo , a 2013 graduate of the Microsoft Windows Azure accelerator , helps clients like Microsoft , Lenovo , Google , Extreme Networks , and more than 170 other customers streamline the process of finding sales leads on social media . The company 's software combines real - time social media activity monitoring with profile data from sources like Twitter and LinkedIn . That information is then synced with a CRM or marketing platform like Salesforce or HubSpot . Socedo , which saw its revenue grow by 3X in 2016 , will use the fresh funding to hire more employees , develop its platform -- including its predictive intelligence software -- and build out integrations with marketing automation providers . The company is also expanding its platform to help marketers not only find new leads through social media activity , but revive existing ones , too . " With Socedo 's social intent data we can provide marketers with insights on which of those existing leads might be in - market and deserve an outreach , " explained Socedo CEO Aseem Badshah . " We can also provide the marketer an understanding of what content to send that lead based on the real - time interest signals they have shown . " Badshah , who founded Socedo in 2013 with Kevin Yu , said his company stays ahead of its competition by processing more relevant and real - time data about intent signals for potential sales leads . " Most intent data providers can only tell you when a prospect is consuming content on a website they track , " he said . " Socedo can provide insights when a prospect engages with a competitor or any other entity on a public social network like Twitter . " Socedo employs 25 people , nearly double from this time last year .         