Looking to get into the South African startup scene or scratch up on some of your skills ? Well , you 've come to the right place . There are loads of competitions , networking sessions and workshops happening around South Africa and the rest of the continent ( namely Kenya , Nigeria and Ghana ) that we 've rounded up to make your life a bit easier . This article is part of a weekly series that highlights all the top startup competitions , networking sessions , workshops and conferences around South Africa , and the greater region . If you have any event recommendations for us to add to the list , or next week 's , please let us know in the comments below or send us an email . Not all of the events are free and some will require booking in advance . Please click on the event names to find out more information . Rise To The Challenge : Cyber Security Rise Cape Town , together with Jonathan Gill , Head of Cyber Security at Barclays Africa invite you to the next edition of Rise To The Challenge : Cyber Security . This month 's event will discuss topics such as fraud , authentication and enterprise security . Date : 22 March , 4:30pm to 6:30pm Location : Rise Cape Town , 5th Floor , Block B , Woodstock Exchange , 66 -68 Albert Road , Cape Town LaunchLab : Water and Waste Management Challenge We are in the middle of a water crisis and the migration to the Western Cape is not slowing down . With the increasing demand on our natural resources we need businesses that are addressing these most fundamental opportunities . We will be hosting a workshop to engage with the Stellenbosch entrepreneurial community on some of the details of the current opportunities in Stellenbosch in water and waste management . This workshop will take place at the Nedbank Stellenbosch University LaunchLab , and will also be broadcast live on the web . Date : 23 March , 3:00pm to 5:550pm Location : Nedbank Stellenbosch University LaunchLab , Stellenbosch Rise Water Hackathon Calling creatives , engineers , scientists , policymakers , date - nerds , water conservationists and backyard tinkerers to take part in a water hackathon . South Africa is one of the forerunners of extreme water stress globally . Let 's grab this window of opportunity to avert tragedy with our collective ingenuity . Date : 24 March , 3:00pm to 7:00pm ; 25 March , 9:00am to 6:00pm Location : Barclays Rise , Woodstock Business Networking Focusing on building long - term business relationships through word of mouth referrals . We are looking for professionals in selected industries to join us and were we tap into one another 's networks to grow each of our businesses . Date : 22 March , 7:00am to 8:30am Location : The Street Cafe ( Rosebank Union Church ) , 40 St Andrews Road Entrepreneurship in China . Meet the legends who have made it just like you ! In this workshop , we will continue expanding into the " one country two systems " reality of China with emphasis on Hong Kong as a springboard to Mainland China . The highlight of this session will be the introduction of two real case studies of foreign entrepreneurs living in Shanghai who have made it just like you ! We will discuss what it means to be a foreign entrepreneur in China and the costs involved in this journey . Date : 22 March , 7:30am to 9:30am Location : N / A Lean Coffee ! Lean Coffee is a format for interesting people to have interesting conversations . Note that ' Lean ' refers to the structure and not necessarily what we talk about . Date : 24 March , 7:30am Location : Father Coffee , The Zone , Rosebank Free 1 Day Workshop - Ignite Your Destiny ; Disrupt or Be Disrupted Your business or your career success is completely reliant on your ability to innovate and create . In the exponential times we live in , life is moving at such a rapid pace that if we are not innovating or creating WE WILL BE LEFT BEHIND , OUR LIFES WILL BE DISRUPTED . We all know this or have heard about how technology is taking over the world , Uber and airB&B , have disrupted the taxi and hotel industry already . How many industries has your cell phone disrupted ? When will the next technological innovation disrupt you and your industry ? Date : 25 March , 9:30am to 6:00pm Location : Impello , 139 Greenway , 3rd Floor , Randburg Sw7 host the " Meet the Geeks " braai - forthcoming GeeksOnaPlane is a trip organised by 500 Startups , one of the largest global technology accelerators that has launched out of Silicon Valley . The trip is aimed at connecting the ecosystem players with the emerging market innovation and startup ecosystems . The ' Geeks ' are investors , Venture Capitalists , funders , technology businesses and support partners looking to connect with the emerging markets with a view to doing business . Sw7 are hosting the Geeks on their Johannesburg leg and will be doing an ecosystem briefing session when they arrive and then hosting a braai at the new @Sw7 Workspace . Date : 28 - 29 March Location : N / A Open Panel Discussion Global Entrepreneurship Network in Myanmar is leading a delegation to the Global Entrepreneurship Congress 2017 in Johannesburg , South Africa and going to meet with entrepreneurs and startup ecosystem actors two of the hottest entrepreneurship hubs in Africa , Johannesburg , South Africa and Nairobi , Kenya . You are cordially invited to be part of the discussion next week on Monday from 1 pm -3 pm . The aim of the meetup will be to share insights from the Myanmar startup ecosystem and explore areas for collaboration . Date : 20 March , 1:00pm to 3:00pm Location : iHub , Senteu Plaza , 6th floor , Nairobi SME Fest 2017 | The Biggest SME Growth and Networking Festival in Africa SME Fest 2017 will be where the Africa 's SME world meets . A curated group of attendees will be gathering for two days of targeted business networking and growth opportunities . World - class speakers , business success experts , leading entrepreneurs , investors , media , Africa 's most promising SMEs and startups will come together for the most important Intra - African business gathering . Date : 21 - 22 March Location : KICC , Nairobi , Nairobi County , Kenya Silicon Yaba Townhall Meeting Growth Capital by CcHUB and 500 startups cordially invite you to the first edition of Silicon Yaba Townhall Meeting . This Townhall meeting is designed to focus on key essential areas to local ecosystem building : Infrastructure and Talent Growth . The Townhall meeting will feature panel discussions with Silicon Valley Insiders , Silicon Yaba Players and the tech ecosystem to discuss challenges , and share stories in overcoming the talent drought and poor access to infrastructure . The aim is to build an important bridge to foster key learnings exchange for both ecosystems , from which stronger bonds of understanding can be built . Date : 21 March , 11:45am to 2:00pm Location : Co - Creation Hub Nigeria , 294 Herbert Macaulay Rd , Lagos , Nigeria ACTIVATE 2017 - Digital Marketing Workshop for Business Startups and Owners Digital Marketing Workshop for Business Startups , Business Owners , Creative Enterprise Owners , Entrepreneurs , Business Leaders , Sales Professionals and Entrepreneurs who wants to move their business to the digital world Date : 22 - 23 March Location : 7 , Shobayo Street , Ilupeju , Lagos Startup Grind hosts Chris Kwekowe ( Slatecube ) Chris is a young MIT / Harvard trained innovative Ed - Tech entrepreneur from Nigeria . He 's passionate about technology and the average African youth . His venture , Slatecube , aims at developing young African talents into world class professionals for today 's distributed workforce . He 's shared this model with the likes of US President Barack Obama , Bill Gates , and across several continents and countries within the last 2 years . Date : 25 March , 3:00pm to 5:30pm Location : CapitalSquare Lagos , Lekki - Epe Express Road Lekki , Lagos Symphony 's DAVID GURLE : Wall Street - Backed Startup , Raised $ 170 M in 2 Years Access Silicon Valley invites you to join us on March 21 , 2017 when we sit down with Symphony Founder & CEO , David Gurle - the man who is revolutionizing the way financial service teams interact each day . Date : 21 March , 3:45am to 5:30am Location : online How to Find ( and Compensate ) Co - Founders for Your Startup ( Live Online Event ) Join this interactive webinar to learn where to look for co - founders , how to determine co - founder compatibility , how to split equity , and how to avoid common mistakes . Date : 23 March , 7:00pm Location : online Have a startup event that you 'd like featured on next week 's event roundup ? Send us an email .