Each week , Tech . Co searches the web to uncover interesting new companies across all sectors . This week in our Startup Spotlight , we 've uncovered startups that are helping families check off their to do lists , fitness classes at a discount price , emerging technology in VR , and more . This week 's Startup Spotlight is brought to you by The Hoth , an SEO & Content Company . Finding babysitters for your kids is an ongoing task for a parent , and when there 's an urgent need sometimes your regular girl is n't available , then what do you do ? Zipsit to the rescue . This Phoenix - based startup is a comprehensive rating system that helps parents choose from hundreds of quality babysitters in your area that your friend 's also use . Users can connect with sitters and grow their circle with feedback from other parents ' reviews . Users develop a personal network of sitters called the " Sitter Circle " and when there is a need , then it can work as a babysitter on - demand system . Also , users wo n't need to run to the ATM to pay their sitter as the transactions can be completed in - app .   Virtual reality is becoming more consumer - friendly and with it comes the need for higher quality video resolution and transmission to reduce latency . VR UniBlock addresses this need and developed a wireless system for transmitting 4k/120Hz video with a delay of up to 3ms . Founded by Askar Khamidov , the VR UniBlock algorithm enables the swift transmission of any data without impacting resolution or latency . This new patent - pending technology has an unlimited potential for transmitting any amount of data without limit but to a closed indoor space , without tethers or any noticeable delay . Originally , VR UniBlock team invented a sensor system for transmitting data but the team pivoted when they realized a huge market need for a better way to transmit video for virtual reality tech .   Image : Flickr For those looking for a last - minute fitness class or want to try a different type of workout , Opensweat a Los Angeles - based startup , can help you find what you want on - demand for less . Think of it as the HotelsTonight app for fitness where you can find fitness options at the last minute . Users can scroll through the app to find a variety of classes and services and book the class for a discounted fee .   For parents that are staring down college applications with their child , compiling their activities and extracurricular into one place is time consuming . MePlusMore is a Phoenix - based startup that can help students create a timeline of their accomplishments to be used as a competitive advantage when applying for colleges and scholarships . The app uses a student 's electronic calendar to capture nontraditional activities , hobbies , skills as well as photos , awards , etc . to create a personal eNarrative . While changing air filters in your home is a pain , it can save you money . But when it 's time to change them out , more often than not you do n't have a backup or the right size . Time to check that task off the list as this Raleigh - based startup FilterEasy will deliver air filters to your door when you need them . The process is meant to be easy : users can select the number of filters , the type of filter grade , the sizes they want , click , and done .   To create a space where Cannabis businesses can advertise to their users and other vendors , Chicago - based startup Kannatopia developed a social platform where they can reach their audience with targeted advertising without the concern of getting shut down . On the flip side , users must be 21 + to access the platform , and are able to connect with other medical and recreational cannabists through an interactive map , as well as track products , provide reviews and discuss cannabis freely without the concern of social and professional backlash . To date they have over 1,000 subscribed users for public beta . Read more about startups here at Tech . Co . This is our new , premium Weekly Spotlight Announcement Series . Learn more about how your company or crowdfunding project can be included and reach thousands of readers around the country , including influencers , investors and more .