Being an entrepreneur and a mom have a lot of similarities . The long hours , the hard work , and the whining coworkers all make for a considerably stressful life . Galvanize talked with entrepreneur Janine Williams , a mother of four and burgeoning startup founder that is looking to change the way hotels do business . Janine Williams knew she was sitting on a goldmine . Technically , she was sitting at her dining room table , the center of operations for the two most important ventures in her life : motherhood and soon - to - be CEO . Her four children under the age of ten pinballed in and out of the room , brimming with drama and full of questions : " Mom ! Mom ! Mom ! Where 's the paper towels ? Niko spilled a bowl of cereal in your bed . " Williams paused the online team meeting she was trying to conduct for her fledgling startup company , Impulsify . She turned her attention to one of her daughters and the dog came bounding up to the table , barking like it was the end of the world . " Janine , is everything okay ? Should we reschedule ? " one of her Skype'd - in colleagues called out from her laptop screen . She reminded herself to breathe . And then the doorbell rang . The UPS guy was at the front door , adding to the already overflowing chaos of her home . Janine reached for the table , not quite white - knuckling it , but hanging on with what little strength she had left , quietly saying to herself , " Do n't fail ... don't fail ... please do n't fail . " Williams ' tumultuous journey from high school English teacher to startup founder from her suburban Denver dining room began nearly ten years ago , when her husband launched a distribution business supplying hotel lobby pantries with stock items like candy bars and bottled water . " At first , I was just kind of the housewife who helped , " says Williams with a laugh . At her husband 's request , she read through the business plan he drafted and wound up rewriting it , then had to create a logo and a website , and so on . Williams ' helper role scaled steadilys they got the company off the ground , all while raising their three young children . Then she realied their next opportunity for growth . " I realized that we could get our clients product all day long , but they did n't know what to do with it , " Williams recalls . " Hotel managers do n't know anything about retail ; they 're hospitality people . So their stores looked bad . You 'd have a gorgeous , multi - million dollar hotel lobby and then round the corner and there 's product boxes ripped open and thrown on a wire rack . It was awful . " Williams was n't the only one that realized this . The hotel employees she would inevitably work with felt exactly the same way . " As an industry , we did n't have the expertise to manage a retail operation , even a small and relatively simple one , " says Scott Youngblood , general manager of Embassy Suites Portland Washington Square . " The whole idea of treating your pantry outlet as valuable real estate that you need to maximize was wasted on the industry until a handful of pioneers like Janine began to help us make sense of it . " Williams created a retail service component to her husband 's business , providing pricing and assortment recommendations along with visual merchandising know - how . She devoured whatever data she could get her hands on , from their internal supply and demand stats to convenience store analytics and consumer trends . She used it to give clients like Marriott incisive direction in shelving the perfect balance of salty snacks and sweet treats , along with healthy and trendy options . " I went from being ' the mom who helped ' to really growing the business as the VP of Sales and Marketing , " says Williams , whose tenacity and insight fueled the company 's surge from supplying 25 hotels to servicing 4,000 properties and landing a spot on Inc 500 's Fastest Growing Companies . Business was booming and she and her husband welcomed a fourth child to their family . But then , divorce reared its ugly head . Because Williams ' ex - husband was her CEO , and she had no stake in the company on paper , she walked away with nothing from the business they 'd built together . " I got the kids , which is far more important to me than a company I can rebuild , " she said . " But in many ways , giving up that business we 'd grown together was like losing a child . " Williams was down . But fortunately , she had an idea . While there 's no shortage of point of purchase software on the market , no one had designed a platform to meet the unique needs of unmanned hotel pantry operations . Hoteliers typically made do by trying to modify software designed for room reservations , golf course pro shops , or in Youngblood 's case at Embassy Suites , an interface built for the restaurant industry . Williams , stubbornly inspired by the fact that her former husband / CEO " laughed at the notion that a blond English major from Florida State was going to build software , " set out to do just that .   With $ 30,000 from her savings , Williams hired a CIO and a small contract development team to take her vision for ImpulsePoint from slide decks to a functioning interface . Powered by machine learning , the ImpulsePoint system gets smarter with each transaction , making Williams ' clients smarter in the process . In less than a year after she and her team turned Youngblood 's relic of a gift shop into the thriving Cascadia Market , the value of his hotel increased by a million dollars . " ImpulsePoint is one of , if not the , most successful innovation we 've been able to deploy , not only at my hotel , but industry - wide , " said Youngblood . Williams ' combination of game - changing software , retail services and never - before - captured data is doubling profits for hoteliers like Youngblood and edging her former company out when the two go head - to - head competing for business . Back at the dining room table , Impulsify was taking off , but Williams felt isolated and , despite her success and resourcefulness , she was cracking under the challenges of keeping her startup afloat while single parenting four kids in what felt like a universe away from Denver 's thriving tech scene . " Major clients were calling us ' too small to scale , ' the kids were frustrated , and I was crumbling . Like , on the verge of giving up , " she says , her voice cracking at the memory . " It felt like everyone else was networking and doing amazing things and here I was , on my dining room table in Lakewood . I realized I needed to either take a risk and put a burst of new energy into our vision , or I needed to call it a day and go get a job . " Then Williams found Galvanize . Last June , Williams took the plunge and became a member of Galvanize 's Platte campus in Denver , where she and the Impulsify team now work their magic in a glass - walled suite in the thick of the bustling tech - and - entrepreneurial community . Williams proudly refers to her new headquarters as " the Fishbowl . " " It 's awesome to be in such a collaborative community , " she says . " Galvanize embodies the excitement and attitude of the whole Denver tech scene . People offer to share resources and help each other , just because they want to see you succeed , and they want to see Denver succeed . " This brings us back to the goldmine Williams is sitting on : millions of potential dollars ' worth of data being collected by the ImpusePoint algorithms that can be packaged and sold to manufacturers and brands . " I can tell them what the top 5 best - selling healthy snacks are in a Select Service hotel with 100 to 150 rooms in an urban area , " Williams says , citing one of a zillion ways her clients carve out a competitive edge using her exclusive analytics . Williams has her eye on more than mere data domination , and making sure she gets her brood out the door and off to school by 6:40am every day . She 's raising a seed round of funding to expand Impulsify 's reach , and she 's determined to strike a better work - life balance than she did in her first tour through the startup minefield , where it was 22 hour days and not seeing enough of her kids . " I wo n't do that again , " she vows . " I 'm trying to be the startup that succeeds without sacrificing my family . " And she 's done it all on " a boot - strapped budget " while supporting four kids . She smiles as she glances out at Galvanize 's deck overlooking downtown Denver , where her 7-year old son is playing Corn Hole with a data science student while she crunches the numbers for her startup . " It 's like we moved the dining room table here , " she chuckles . " We 've still got kids and dogs running around . We just do it in the Fishbowl now . " This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .