Since Facebook 's 2017 F8 Developer Conference kicked off on Tuesday , the social media giant has made a raft of announcements about the new features it has in the works . From advances in augmented reality to virtual assistants , read on for the latest offerings from Mark Zuckerberg and company . During his keynote , Zuckerberg highlighted various forms of AR technology that could soon appear on our smartphones . He previewed tools that will allow users to place virtual objects in real places , such as a note on a refrigerator or artwork on blank white walls . In one demonstration , he showcased the ability to turn flat images into 3D scenes and overlay directions or set up a gameboard . Two tools within the Facebook app 's camera are now available . AR Studio is in closed beta , and developers can apply for access to create effects based on object detection ( think virtual steam billowing from a cup of coffee ) . Frame Studio is available to the public and allows users to create their own image filters and overlays . The company announced the beta launch of a social virtual reality app called Facebook Spaces . If you own an Oculus Rift headset , with the app , you can make a cartoon avatar of yourself , and you and three friends can virtually hang out in just about any setting you can imagine , from Paris to outer space . FutureFor those who have held off downloading the Messenger app until this point , it seems that Facebook is hoping to lure more users with the promise of a more multilevel experience . Messenger will soon integrate the ability to play games such as Words With Friends , and an Apple Music extension is on its way , on top of the current partnership with Spotify . Users can also look forward to a mobile payments function in Messenger for purchases such as event tickets . M , Facebook 's answer to Siri or Alexa , will now be able to drop into users ' conversations in Messenger . If someone asks a question about what to order for dinner , M can offer suggestions and then launch a window within the app where the user can make a purchase through a third party . At F8 , the company also launched Chat Extensions . Now in Messenger , a chat bot can be a group experience , rather than a one - on - one interaction . For example , a group might use theScore 's bot to follow a game or Kayak 's to make travel plans . Owing to Zuckerberg 's goal of merging the digital and physical worlds , Facebook and Udacity are partnering to organize meetups in cities all over the country , where developers can learn new skills and work together . At the conference , Regina Dugan , the head of the company 's research and development moonshot division Building 8 , said that she and her team are currently working on a neural interface that would enable someone to type with just their mind -- up to 100 words per minute . Building 8 is also developing skin sensor technology that would essentially allow someone to hear through their skin . The team is at work on software and hardware that would make the skin mimic the way that the ear and brain process sound frequencies . This artificial cochlea would allow the brain to recognize symbols , words and patterns based on what a person touches . At F8 , the company also rolled out a pair of Surround 360-degree cameras -- the x24 and x6 . The cameras will be completed later this year . The company plans to license the technology to manufacturers in lieu of an open - source model . Last year , a 360-degree camera was announced at F8 . It reportedly cost more than $ 25,000 to produce . Facebook laid out a few initiatives at F8 toward its goal of providing internet connectivity in places that do not currently have access . Tether - Tennas are tethered helicopters meant to act as a backup when natural disasters interrupt connections . Another program , the Terragraph project , uses antennas to close wireless coverage gaps in cities . The ongoing Aquila project is working on drones to provide internet connectivity . During the conference , Michael Abrash , the chief scientist at Oculus Research , made the prediction that by 2022 , augmented reality glasses will be available to consumers , and they could eclipse the popularity of the cell phone . Nina Zipkin is a staff writer at Entrepreneur.com . She frequently covers media , tech , startups , culture and workplace trends .