Xyla Foxlin strives to be the woman she wishes she had to look up to growing up : passionate and invested in what she does technically , but also maintaining pride in her femininity and external interests including fashion and art . You 'll find her in a dress at robotic design reviews , and a blur of pink in the machine shop . Xyla is the 20-year - old CEO and founder of Parihug , the startup behind internet - connected plushes that let you hug loved ones from anywhere in the world , and she first launched the idea back in 2015 , at a hack - a - thon as an engineering student . The company won the Readers Choice poll for Tech . Co 's SXSW Startup of the Year , but they also recently launched Beauty and the Bolt , an " online village that is designed to reduce the barrier to entry into makerspaces and the makerspace movement , as well as subtly change the narrative of what an engineer should look , act , and dress like . " Here 's Xyla on her journey and the advice she has for anyone hoping to follow in her footsteps . " I was in a long - distance relationship at the time , and simply wanted a source of comfort at the end of the day . That sparked the idea , and then it was the technical challenge that really drew me in at first . How on earth do you use a couple simple components to fool the brain into believing something that is n't true ? How can a cuddly plush toy detect a hug without becoming an awkward creepy weird robot ? Now , much of my motivation stems from people 's stories . I absolutely love hearing about supporters ' family experiences and why they need Pari-- some of these stories are absolutely tear - jerking . " " Up ! We are in a really unique position , where we ( accidentally ) practically invented the consumer tele - intimacy market . There are n't any options for families and loved ones to share emotions over distance the way we do in person-- through touch , smell , taste , etc . There are so many more options than just audio / visual . That said , I hope that changes-- there is a huge difference between telling someone " I love you " over Skype , and actually being able to give them a hug . I really want to just focus on connection-- how can we keep making that experience more and more real , and more and more emotional . " " Adults , use your imaginations . ( Kidding ! ! ) Absolutely . Could I tell you exactly what ? Not at all . I personally want to explore the options in therapy for both special needs children and anxiety disorders . Imagine Pari in a NICU , or as an open source platform for therapists to develop on . The possibilities are endless ! " " For sure , although I think my college and social life was significantly more impacted than my entrepreneur journey . On the startup side , easily the toughest part is ( still ! ) not being 21 , since so much networking and startup events happen at bars .   On the social life end of things , it 's ( understandably ) pretty tough as a 20 year old girl to empathize with your roommate who is constantly traveling , putting herself out there , no longer taking classes , and constantly being featured in press . I have definitely felt alienated and even targeted by people whom I considered good friends before I started Parihug , but hope that with time the cattiness will wear off . ( Someone once scrawled ' Hugs are overrated ' in my dorm elevator . ) Those who I 'm truly close to say I haven't changed as a person , and I 'm very conscious about not talking about startup things when I 'm with my old classmates . It 's hard to find people my own age who can understand the stress of starting a company . " " Learn to be a sponge , and then learn to filter out bullsh*t . Always listen , even if you disagree . You can learn the most from those people .   Surround yourself with a support network that will be there not only when you 're successful , but also when you fail . But make sure they are people who do n't take joy from when you get knocked down , or are jealous enough that they want to see you fail . The most important things are grit , empathy , and kindness . You need to know how to work through the hardest nights of your life and maintain a ( mostly ) positive spirit . You also need to be able to empathize with your coworkers , your support network , and your product audience . And be kind ! Your mother was right . Volunteer when the opportunity arises , donate your time and efforts , and be nice to everyone . Not only does it make you a good person and is fulfilling , but you never know who will be able to help you in the future . "