RefME takes the tedium out of compiling citations - and is proving extremely popular with students . The free app works by scanning the book you want to reference to speed up the task of creating , formatting and managing bibliographies .   RefMe raised $ 5 million ( PS3.75 million ) in seed round funding in April 2015 , led by GEMS Global . This Hackney - based edtech startup blends hardware and software skills for children by selling toys that kids can build and code themselves . Technology Will Save Us has kits for building your own synthesiser , speaker , games console and even a starter soldering kit , with prices starting at PS15 for the BBC micro : bit . The company was dreamed up by husband and wife Daniel Hirschmann and Bethany Koby around their kitchen table in 2012 . CEO Koby said last year : " I 'm not sure there has ever been a more exciting time to be building a learning - focused organisation in the UK , and we are thrilled to be leading the charge and championing edtech in this field . " Technology Will Save Us raised a PS1.2 million seed funding round led by Saatchinvest in December 2015 . George Burgess is a 23-year - old British entrepreneur who dropped out from Stanford University to focus on growing edtech startup Gojimo . The exam revision app is available on iOS , Android and the web and offers over 50,000 free curriculum - specific quiz questions to over 300,000 monthly active users . Premium content from the likes of McGraw - Hill Education and Oxford University Press is also available as in - app purchases .   Gojimo previously raised over $ 1 million ( PS630,000 ) in a seed round led by Index Ventures , which included participation by JamJar Investments ( the innocent Drinks founders ) . Krishan Meetoo , along with his co - founder Carl Dawson , set up Proversity to provide a learning and development environment " across the employee lifecycle , from attracting talent through to on boarding them by providing the professional and soft skills they need for the role . So try before you buy with candidates , " Meetoo said . Proversity is working in the corporate learning space , providing an on - demand mobile platform that brings employee attraction , recruitment and retention into one place . Candidates are given a structured learning programme , with each course being designed on a bespoke basis depending on the employer needs . Content can range from text , photos , motion graphics , video walkthroughs and various forms of assessment , from essays to simple check boxes . Proversity raised $ 1.6 million ( PS1 million ) in investment from Czech Republic fund RSBC Venture Capital in November 2015 and is planning a PS5 - 8 million Series A round this year as it expands into the USA , Middle East and ASEAN markets . Learning a new language is really hard , and companies have been trying to make it easier as far back as those giant Rosetta Stone software boxes were being advertised on the TV . UK startup Memrise claims to have cracked the science behind learning and retaining a new language , called ' elaborate encoding . ' The platform then reinforces learning by testing and scheduling reminders to keep participants engaged . Memrise has raised more than $ 6 million ( PS4.5 million ) in seed and Series A funding so far , led by London VC firm Balderton Capital . London - based Firefly aims to free up teachers ' time by simplifying the processes of sifting e - mail for homework , working with a clunky virtual learning environment or copying data into multiple apps that do n't communicate . The portal integrates with existing school systems to bring everything into one place . Teachers can issue homework , give feedback and track progress in one place . For students this means being able to submit work at any time , so not having to hand in work while on study leave , for example . It also gives parents an easy way to track their child 's progress and timetables . Firefly is already used in 300 schools across the UK and typically charges between PS3,000 and PS10,000 depending on the number of pupils . The startup has so far avoided venture capital . A similar , well established startup is London - based Show My Homework . The clue is in the name , as the platform aims to give teachers their evenings back by bringing time saving reports , instant access to online resources and access to homework into one place . The app also gives parents total visibility of their child 's homework and students a place to store and manage all of their homework in one place . Show My Homework is already in more than 1500 schools globally and it raised PS2.4 million in funding from venture capital firm LocalGlobe in January 2017 . Wonde is a Cambridge - based startup working to help schools keep their data secure . The platform allows schools to view and manage their data as it is accessed by third party applications . Once in place Wonde enables administrators to allow or deny access to school data and manage existing applications . For developers Wonde supplies an API for access to school data without having to set up agreements with individual organisations . Knowledgemotion 's primary product is the boclips platform , which allows education providers to find and embed over two million video clips into their teaching materials without having to deal with tricky licensing issues or multiple content providers . The service is available as a clips library or a white label portal , with usage charged either per stream , or at a flat rate per asset used . Founder David Bainbridge told Techworld that he created Knowledgemotion after asking himself : " In an education world that is manifestly changing , where textbooks are becoming Chromebooks , why was n't the content experience in classrooms - from schools to university to corporate training - catching up with the tech delivery opportunity that seemed to be unfolding ? " The company has already signed a supply deal with education content publishers Pearson . Bainbridge says this means " clips are API integrated into their publishing tool . So when a textbook is being created the author can search and pull in the relevant clip to illustrate the paragraph . " Knowledgemotion has raised close to PS1.2 million from angel investors and ICG Ventures - part of major textbook publisher Ingram Content Group - and is preparing for a Series A round at the time of writing . London - based startup Pobble is a platform for children 's writing , with the aim of encouraging even the most reluctant young writers by opening up a global audience for their published work . There is a school version which can be embedded , with trackable metrics . Pobble claims to be used in 100 countries and has already seen 30,000 pieces published to the platform . Authors Anthony Horowitz and Michael Morpurgo are fans too . Pobble raised PS170,000 in crowdfunding with CrowdCube in 2015 , and an additional PS900,000 funding round in February 2016 . Digital Assess is trying to change the way students and assessors work together on feedback relating to pieces of work . Assessors can leave contextual feedback , so comments on a single line of music , a specific paragraph or a slide for a project , regardless of file format . The mobile platform lets work be presented as a " storyboard - style digital portfolio . " Digital Assess works predominantly with higher education bodies , including Goldsmiths university and Eton college , but also vocational learning and accreditation bodies . Digital Assess raised $ 3 million ( PS2.25 million ) from investors including Nesta Impact Investments in June 2015 . Fluency focuses on online learning and development courses in digital employability skills , such as analytics , coding , email , CRM , SEO and social media . There are just 25 courses available on the free portal at the time of writing , with each one clearly marked for how long it will take to complete . The aim is that as candidates take on skills and learnings they become more visible to employers . The platform has started pulling through digital jobs so once candidates successfully pass a course they become eligible for jobs through Fluency . The platform also aims to help employers find skilled candidates by designing courses tailored to their needs . Fluency raised $ 110,000 ( PS82,000 ) in angel investment from Bethnal Green Ventures and Clearly Social Angels back in 2014 . London - based startup AVADO focuses on corporate e - learning , teaching employees digital skills through bespoke courses . Lisa Barrett , managing director at AVADO told Techworld that each customer starts out with a face to face meeting with AVADO , where they will " do a capability audit or assessment around digital skills at the organisation to understand their vision and strategy and where the gaps are for digital ways of working , " she said . One of these solutions is Dot Native , which allows employees to do short , video - driven learning tasks . " A key challenge around e - learning is that it does n't work , it 's repetitive and people do n't finish . So we have designed bite - sized pieces of learning , " she said . AVADO builds its learning tools on a highly customised version of the open source Moodle learning technology . The startup has been backed by VC firm Blenheim Chalcot an undisclosed amount . Oxford University graduate Shameer Thobhani has launched Lectus , an iOS - only app which allows students to connect with expert tutors around the world via video calls . The app is still a little buggy and at the time of writing there are only a handful of tutors , charging PS0.40 a minute , but the premise of opening up elite tutors to a broader audience is extremely compelling . Current tutors include a second year biomedical science student at Imperial College London and a 22 year old history and english graduate from Oxford . Subjects include university admissions , languages , history , mathematics , science , economics and geography . Filippo Yacob came up with the idea of Cubetto - a coding toy designed to help children aged three years and up to write their first computer programs - after the birth of his son . Cubetto is a wooden robot which teaches kids to code using blocks instead of screens . Colour coded directional arrows can be placed on the interface board which will direct the Cubetto on a pre - defined path around maps that can be laid on the floor . This apparently teaches children the basics of algorithms , debugging , and recursions . It is a product of London - based startup Primo Toys which raised $ 1.6 million ( PS1.3 million ) for the project on Kickstarter last year . Cubetto is n't cheap , retailing at PS159 . Teaching the next generation to code is the aim of many a startup , and Code Kingdoms takes a gamification approach , turning glitches into enemies that need to be destroyed . The game uses JavaScript to allow the target audience of 6 - 13 year olds to create fantasy worlds .   Founders Ross Targett and Hugh Collins came out of the Entrepreneur First graduate accelerator programme and the startup has raised a total of PS280,000 in seed funding from SparkLabs Global Ventures , EF ( Entrepreneur First ) , AngelLab and Neon Adventures . Code Club is a partner of Code Kingdoms and is responsible for events and workshops for 9 - 11 year olds to learn about coding . Code Club is hosted by the UK charity Raspberry Pi Foundation to encourage more young people to learn coding skills and close the growing technology skills gap .   Kids that attend Code Club will be taught how to programme through fun applications like computer games , animations and websites . Courses start out using Scratch to learn the basics of programming , before graduating to basic web development using HTML and CSS and then advanced skills using established programming languages like Python . Sheffield - based startup Tutora was founded by ex - teacher Scott Woodley and technology analyst Mark Hughes in August 2015 . It is a platform for helping parents and students find local , in - person tutors and pay for it without having to handle cash ( using Stripe ) . There are currently around 5,000 tutors across 11 UK cities to choose from , starting at PS15 per hour . Tutors are vetted using their government ID and can be searched by subject , price , customer feedback ( a star rating ) and proximity . Tutora crowdfunded PS150,000 from 75 investors in April for a 10 percent share in the business . It is currently preparing for a Series A round . Blackbullion seeks to help students and young people take better care of their finances , which in turn helps improve employability . The Blackbullion school edition takes the form of an eight part story and the university version comes in short learning modules based around making informed financial decisions in a non - patronising way . now > press > play is an " immersive educational resource " that looks to help primary school children engage with the curriculum through immersive storytelling . In a now > press > play experience each child is given a pair of headphones which will tell an audio story that incorporates learnings , discovery and problem solving . Pricing is bespoke according to the school . Edalytics is based out of the TechHub at Google Campus and is currently in private beta mode with schools . The mysterious startup says that it is : " Testing technologies such as gamification , cognitive studies , artificial intelligence and data mining to create a unique learning experience for the students . "