It 's the day before Valentine 's Day and I have forgotten to buy my girlfriend anything . At the top of my inbox I have an email from the flower delivery startup Bloom and Wild offering me a discount code on bouquets and guaranteed delivery for February 14th . I click the link and am taken straight into the mobile app and the discount has already been applied to the products I can see on the screen . How did the startup 's backend system know where my order was originating and to apply a discount code without me having to enter it at checkout ? That is the work of Branch 's deep linking , and it is having a profound effect for marketing teams at some of the world 's biggest retail startups . Branch is a tech startup from Silicon Valley that was created when the app developer founders saw how difficult it was to link between channels like web and email to a mobile app , where conversions tend to be higher . The advantage of this is opening up traditional customer acquisition channels to drive mobile app downloads , instead of relying solely on the app store . Accommodation booking giant Airbnb is using Branch links to drive app installs and reported a 19 percent uptick as a result . As Ramsey Pryor , head of international expansion at Branch , told Techworld : " We have been working on this full time for two and a half years with 50 engineers and although it may seem simple it 's not once you look across platforms and every instance . You get a benefit of outsourcing that headache to us . " In terms of UK customers Branch already has major commercial companies like Notonthehightstreet.com and Skyscanner using its tools to drive more conversions . Branch takes a developer - first approach to user acquisition , similar to Silicon Valley giants like Stripe and Twilio , and relies on its community to spread the word . Once the free SDK is implemented at a company they tend to start leveraging the premium , more marketing - facing tools like deep linked email , smart banner ads and user journey analytics . The Bloom and Wild example above comes from Branch 's ability to deep link within email marketing , which is important because 70 percent of email is done on mobile now , according to Branch . Bloom and Wild Flowers cofounder Aron Gelbard told Techworld : " We realised we wanted to send emails regarding products and to include a call to action to allow users to buy in email , so we wanted that to point to the product in - app if they have the app , and the website if not . " After this first use case , Bloom and Wild expanded into more sophisticated deep linking to personalise which content customers were landing on and to make applying discount codes more seamless . Gelbard says the company has seen a significant decrease in drop offs at the point where customers had to apply a discount code manually . The startup is also using Branch 's deep linking capabilities to gain better attribution insights . Gelbard explained : " We now use [ Branch ] when there is no discount code , so by attribution as well . So if you click an adwords link , or an email about Valentine 's Day with no discount code we still apply a code with a Branch deep link which hides that code . That enables us to not need to give out as many codes and still track the user . " Gelbard said that he did n't see a viable alternative on the market to solve his deep linking issues and that he was impressed by Branch 's developer ecosystem and standing in the startup community . The company is already looking ahead to Valentine 's Day next year , applying data science to improve the user experience further . Gelbard explained : " We are growing the data science team for personalisation and have started to implement this for different customers , seeing different products , in a different order depending on what the data says is most interesting to them . " So for Valentine 's Day we merchandise differently around previous purchase behaviour to make the process more seamless . "