For entrepreneurs , focusing on change and newness do n't just come at the start of a calendar , but at a moment 's notice . With hectic schedules , long days , and even longer nights , it 's important to carve out time to focus on your health , wellness , and of course getting in some sleep . Regardless of the constant pressure on entrepreneurs , many of us still jump on the wellness bandwagon of New Year 's Resolutions . Interestingly enough , only 17 days into January is where most people end up leaving their resolution behind , also known as Ditch New Year 's Resolution Day . If you 've kept up the pace thus far , you 've only a little more than 300 days to go . If that seems like a long way out , perhaps the advice from entrepreneurs from all walks of life will give you some added inspiration to keep up the wellness efforts : According to world - renowned fitness expert and life coach , Jillian Michaels , it 's all about simplicity . Keep it simple , affordable and accessible . The less strict the better . Anything rigid is hard to stick to : Speaking of simplicity , Michaels recently launched a new fitness anywhere platform , FitFusion , which allows you to stream some of the more popular workout types on any device . Some of us run , others meditate and do yoga . For Washington , DC 's founder and CEO of iStrategyLabs , Peter Corbett , he 's been on a progressive wellness journey for a healthier lifestyle over the past few years . " My best advice is to find some activity you really love - where you can also be productive . For me it 's cycling . I can get out there for an hour or two , clear my head , and solve a few business problems by noodling on them as I ride . " If you want to achieve a goal , you need to measure wellness milestones leading up to it . For VideoAmp cofounder and CEO Ross McCray , that means measuring everything . Being a healthy entrepreneur is n't all lifting weights and hitting the track . You also need to flex that brain muscle to promote wellness . " As an ex - breakdancer for over a decade , I rigorously trained daily for professional competitions . Those experiences made me realize how good health can affect productivity for the better -- and even make me a better CEO , " said Cyril Paglino , cofounder and CEO of Tribe . " I kick off every morning by reading for 45 minutes before checking my emails , which helps me start the day with the most up - to - date tech news at top of mind . In general , I try to make sure I get in a workout 4 - 5 times per week to allow me to unplug from work for a few hours and relieve any stresses that may come my way , keeping me sharp and focused throughout the day . " For a positive brand dedicated to inspiring optimism , it 's important to have healthy employees - both mentally and physically . Bert Jacobs , chief executive optimist at Life is Good shares how he inspires his team into a healthy atmosphere : Before kicking off his day , cofounder and COO of DC - based TransitScreen , Ryan Croft , clears his mind . " As a tech startup founder , I have found running is the best way to stay physically , mentally fit . I run at least two miles at 6 am every morning and often more on the weekends . For me , running provides a digital detox . Running enables me to open my mind to big picture strategy and new opportunities that I often overlook in the hectic every day hustle . " Have you ever wondered why Meal Prep Sunday is such a popular thing for fitness , health , and wellness buffs ? Besides having a better handle on what you eat throughout the week , it also means you get healthier options than eating out all the time . " My best tip for staying healthy is to plan ahead for food ( including meals and snacks ) so that I do n't get caught reaching for junk food .   If possible , it 's helpful to do as much food advance food prep as possible on the weekend , as well as making healthy desserts and snacks .   Planning out what you want to eat each day also helps keep you body nourished , fueled , and satisfied , " said Carrie Seibert , owner and founder of Soap Commander . Board meetings ? More like surfboard meetings . " For the new year ( and as part of our new offices ) , my CTO and I have instigated a mandatory board meeting during lunch everyday , basically a 45 - 1.5 hour surf session out front of our offices , " said Rob Farrow , cofounder and CEO of Aisle Planner . " It 's a great way for us to get the team outside , think freely and brainstorm while getting the some exercise ... Not everyone has gotten on board just yet , but the ones who have love it and everyone else is taking up their own personal excursive plan during lunch ... makes for a happy team . " We 're not all morning people , but for ShorTel CEO Don Joos , he starts the day with a bit of ass kicking . " I have a regular 5:00am workout consisting of Insanity , Asylum and a five - mile run regardless of where I am in the world and the time zone . Since so much of my job is unpredictable , the workout helps keep my mind and body fresh and at least have a predictable start to my day . " You need to get out and move . Period . If you spend your entire day in front of a computer , find a way to get out of your seat today ! " By default of being a millennial , I found myself working those 16 hour days in front of a computer , we all know this is not healthy and in the long run it is the recipe for burnout . In talking with one of my investors , we discussed keeping fit and healthy . I said ' I prefer to go to the gym at night ' and he said ' I go to the gym every morning , before I go out to hunt for my food . Once I have caught my food I go home to rest . ' It suddenly dawned on me , maybe I am doing it all backwards . What sense is it in going out to hunt all day for my food and then going prepare my body after the deed was done . In other words , my investor was telling me to go to the gym in the mornings as it would set me straight to succeed in the day while I at work . " - Jamie Johnson , CEO of FJP Investment If you think eating right is the way to go when it comes to wellness , think again . Bold CEO Caleb Parker discusses finding the perfect combination . " The winning combination is eating right , exercise , and sleep . It 's a struggle to manage all three , but you do n't have to be perfect . I avoid white bread and regular sodas , exercise at least 3 times a week ( Gym preferred , but even push - ups and pull - ups at home for 5 min is better than nothing ) , and I aim to get 7 hours of sleep at night . " Being thankful is about creating a positive mindset in hopes of promoting good among others . And it 's the best way to stay mentally healthy . " Express gratitude and take time to breath . Seriously ! I say out loud what I 'm thankful for while driving on the beautiful LA freeways , and I do a series of breathing exercises when I 'm feeling anxious or stressed . These two habits have dramatically cut down on my stress levels and impacted my emotional health more than any gym time . " - Bilal Kaiser , principal at Agency Guacamole Living the present is n't just a saying you find on fortune cookies . It 's one of the keys to living a health life . " It took me years to realize the importance of focusing on what you 're doing at the moment , no matter if it 's work , physical exercise or being at home with your family on a Saturday afternoon . Multitasking is inevitable nowadays , and sometimes desirable . But try as much as you can to focus on what you 're doing now . While working , see if you have those multiple tabs opened in your browser . If you do , save those links somewhere , and just open them again when you 're ready to focus on them . " - David Laloum , founder and CEO of Carts Guru