An Indian technology startup , that claims to be the world 's largest appointment - booking platform for doctors , today announced it has raised more money .   SEE ALSO : Reliance Jio is bringing Apple 's HealthKit features to India with its new app Bangalore - based Practo has raised $ 55 million in its Series D funding led by Chinese internet giant , Tencent . The round also saw participation from a clutch of new investors that included ru - Net , RSI Fund , owned by Recruit Holdings , and Thrive Capital . The Series D round takes Practo 's total funding to about $ 180 million . These funds will be primarily used to fuel the company 's expansion in the existing markets of India , Singapore , Indonesia , Philippines and Brazil , and also in strengthening its enterprise offerings .   Practo connects patients to nearby doctors and clinics , letting them read about the doctors ' experience as well as rating and reviews from other patients . For doctors and hospitals , Practo provides , for a fee , an online patient management system for maintaining the appointments as well as other services to help them market themselves , gain visibility and increase footfalls . Practo now intends to integrate all that as well as medicine orders , payments and health data under one seamless ecosystem . " This will be made possible by providing a central infrastructure on which the entire healthcare ecosystem can interact , connect , create & exchange value by linking layers of data , communication & payments to deliver better care , " Shashank ND , founder of Practo , said in a statement . Practo currently operates in 15 countries in Latin America , Middle East and Southeast Asia , besides going strong in India . The company claims that it clocks about 45 million appointments annually which makes it the world 's largest appointment - booking platform in only eight years , according to Forbes India .   What makes Practo successful is that it manages to address one of India 's biggest pain - points , i.e. access to trusted medical health professionals .   What makes Practo successful is that it manages to address one of India 's biggest pain - points , i.e. access to trusted medical health professionals . According to the World Bank , India , a nation of 1.3 billion , has only 0.7 doctors per 1,000 people . In comparison , less populated nations like the U.K. and the U.S. are far higher at 2.8 and 2.5 , respectively . Besides being a go - to service for consumers , Practo has gradually become an important cog in the wheel for enterprises too .   Late last year it acquired advanced analytics firm Enlightiks that enables it to offer business intelligence to healthcare firms .   Prior to that , in 2015 , it entered hospital management by buying Insta Health Solutions and facilitated smooth appointment - booking through the buyout of Qikwell Technologies .    