LevelTen Energy CEO Bryce Smith . ( LevelTen Photo )   Big companies are increasingly seeking out renewable energy to cope with carbon emissions caps and keep their budgets more stable , but those big transactions can be complicated and lengthy . So says LevelTen Energy , a Seattle startup that 's created a two - sided marketplace to help clean power providers sell their products to corporate clients . " We make it easy for producers and buyers of wholesale green power to research , execute , and manage these complex transactions , and our transparent , streamlined transaction process allows less experienced buyers to participate for the first time , " said LevelTen CEO Bryce Smith . The five - person company launched last year and is currently incubating in the Techstars Seattle 2017 accelerator . Smith brings nearly 15 years of experience in the energy industry to his latest venture . " We devised a platform that offers clean power in a way that 's far superior , in terms of risk , value , and transaction costs , " he said . " Imagine if Match.com and Vanguard had a baby that really cared about clean energy . " GeekWire caught up with Smith for our regular Startup Spotlight feature . Continue reading for his answers to our questionnaire . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " LevelTen Energy operates a technology - enabled , two - sided marketplace that connects large - scale wind and solar projects with corporate energy buyers . " Inspiration hit us when : " At my previous company , it took two years to execute a power sale to a willing and eager corporate customer . At that point , I knew that there had to be a better way to bring together two parties that really wanted to transact . " VC , Angel or Bootstrap : " All of the above . We 're grateful to our angel friends at Element 8 for getting us off the ground , but we also need our venture backers to capture this huge opportunity . " Our ' secret sauce ' is : " Wholesale electricity markets are complicated , esoteric , and littered with pitfalls , so it 's imperative to assess renewable energy projects with a sophisticated lens . Executing these transactions requires getting hundreds of details right , across multiple disciplines ( e.g. project evaluation , wholesale price risk , project finance , deal structuring ) . We 're really proud of the skills that our team brings , in this regard , though that 's not much of a secret ! " The smartest move we 've made so far : " Forming a strategic partnership with EnergyGPS , a Portland - based firm that brings unparalleled wholesale energy market expertise and analytics . " The biggest mistake we 've made so far : " Often , a bad choice is better than no choice at all . We regret not moving more quickly on a few important issues . " Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : " As a Seattle entrepreneur , is there any upside in siding with Gates or Bezos ? Pass , please ! I will say that the Gates Foundation work is inspirational , and we try to emulate Amazon 's unrelenting customer focus . " Our favorite team - building activity is : " Cocktails , when we 're lucky enough to be in the same city . " The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : " Integrity , expertise , and a bias for action . Sorry , that was three things . " What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : " If people do n't think your concept is outlandish or unattainable , you 're probably not being sufficiently ambitious . Also , getting out of bed every day is half the battle ! " Editor 's note : GeekWire is featuring each of the companies in the Techstars Seattle 2017 accelerator as they prepare for their Demo Day April 19 .