Growth inevitably brings changes -- some welcomed and some not . And while adaptability is a must in business , there are some changes that , if not managed appropriately , can send a growing company into a tailspin . One of the areas that businesses must remain vigilant about is company culture . Every company has a culture , whether it 's actively cultivated or not . And that culture serves as the foundation upon which the organization bases all internal and external decisions and interactions . It 's also a huge part of the common belief structure that dictates the direction of the company as well as its mission and values . As such , it is incredibly important to not only maintain a strong company culture , but also protect it from the effects of growth - related degradation . But how do you know if your culture is being threatened ? And if it is , how do you get it back on track ? In the early days of WebPT , our culture developed organically . The team was small , so we naturally had a close - knit , scrappy culture . We were able to nurture the company culture and communicate expectations simply by being a close group -- through osmosis . But after we took a round of angel funding in year two , we added more new people in three months than we had during those first two years . The energy within WebPT was shifting -- and the change was palpable . That 's when we knew we needed to take a hard look at how we were going to preserve our culture moving forward . And I would urge every business owner -- regardless of size or employee count -- to do this sooner rather than later . To get back on track , we used our annual New Year 's company meeting to rally the team around defining our culture . We asked them : We ended up filling an entire whiteboard with ideas , which we then distilled down into the set of culture commitments that still shape everything we do today . Enlisting the team to assist in defining and building this was one of the most important things we did . Before you can truly define your values , though , you must define your purpose . Ask yourself : The answers to these questions will form the basis of your organization 's vision and purpose -- your North Star . A strong purpose will give meaning to your work and inspire your team to put heart into everything they do . It also allows them to feel they are part of something bigger . Vision and purpose have been the key drivers behind our growth . They guide our hiring , firing , and partnership decisions , and they help put us back on track when we make mistakes . They also form the foundation of our core values . Core values are essentially fundamental beliefs that guide major decisions , provide a behavioral compass , shape your company 's culture , and ultimately serve as the bedrock of the organization . While there is n't a right or wrong way to define your core values , it was important for us to enlist our team in creating ours . Core values should be as simple and straightforward as possible while still reflecting your company 's personality . These are commitments and expectations that should be used to hold your team accountable every day . A good rule of thumb is to stick to four to 10 statements of no more than six words . Once defined , find every opportunity to infuse them into your daily operations . This could include : At the end of the day , our real differentiator at WebPT is our people -- and I would argue that is the one thing that sets most successful organizations apart from the rest . Of course , you ca n't attract -- and retain -- great people without a great company culture . So , make the effort to define , preserve , and nurture it , especially if you are in the midst of rapid growth . Read more about company culture here on Tech . Co