Chris Heivly , also known as the " Chief Pot - Stirrer " in Raleigh Durham , North Carolina , is the Managing Partner at The Startup Factory , a serial entrepreneur , and the cofounder of MapQuest . He 's known for kicking up the dust and finding ways to get people fired up to shift the startup ecosystem into high gear . This time for the # StartupEverywhere series , he talks with me about his role in the ecosystem , operating an investment accelerator , the impact of educational institutions and challenges startups face . I refer to myself as the " chief pot - stirrer . " Seven years ago there was very little activity in our region , so my role at that time was to create activity through one - on - one meetings , events ( such as pitch events and job fairs ) , and crowdsourced information blogs -- really whatever it took . For the last six years I operated two investment accelerators , which collectively invested in 42 companies . I also am part of an informal group of community leaders who look for ways to increase both the scope and speed of our startup ecosystem 's growth .   Raleigh - Durham is unique in that it has three large universities ( University of North Carolina Chapel Hill , Duke , North Carolina State ) and a handful of smaller colleges that serve as excellent feeders for ideas , talent , capital , and awareness . Additionally , the Research Triangle Park ( RTP ) was created over 50 years ago and houses thousands of talented employees of IBM , Cisco , GSK , NetApp , and many others .   Those elements , combined with the low cost of living here , have really helped us grow . Read more about incubators around the country The number one feature that sets the Raleigh - Durham startup community apart is our inclusive nature . As startup community underdogs ( as compared to New York City or Boston ) , we understand that we have to work harder and smarter than many other communities . North Carolina , specifically the Raleigh - Durham metro area , has experienced huge population growth and will continue to see a huge in - migration of talent -- we are expected to add 1 million people by 2025 . Every single person you speak to from our startup ecosystem will share that this region embraces them and empowers them from day one . In addition , our diversity statistics shatter national numbers . For example , the Startup Factory 's founders were one - third female and one - third minority . These trends are also reflected in our co - working spaces . I 'd say it 's figuring out how to maintain all of the momentum built over the past seven years . This is not unlike the pressure that a growing company has as it matures . Our success has been built on a platform of # givefirst , which has has enabled us to do more things faster . But it gets harder to maintain that tight community as you grow . Our challenge will be in navigating future success with the same underdog intensity . The American Underground entrepreneur campus in Raleigh , NC . Our startup culture is unique and exciting and as such , it draws attention from policymakers at all levels . Most of the interactions are in the context of tours and hallway conversations . The Startup Factory has hosted a handful of state policymakers to share our observations . When I think about challenges and the next phase of startup community growth for Raleigh - Durham , I see an opportunity to bring awareness of the growing startup scene to policymakers , and even influence policy and behavior as a stretch goal . Tips on building a company culture at your startup There really is not any one thing but a bunch of good things that add up to the continued growth of the area 's startup ecosystem . The first installment of Moogfest ( a futuristic conference and music festival ) was held in Durham to much acclaim . The American Underground entrepreneur campus ( in coordination with Google for Entrepreneurs and Black Wall Street Homecoming ) launched a week - long series of events where black founders from around the country received mentorship and extended their networks . The region continued to grow through HQ Raleigh 's expansion of their footprint locally as well as into other geographies . Outside venture capital invested in local companies also continues to rise .   Chris is keeping an eye on : Read about ecosystems around the country at Tech . Co This article is courtesy of Engine 's # StartupsEverywhere series , a campaign celebrating the diverse , vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystems that are taking root in every corner of the country . Through weekly profiles of startup ecosystem leaders , the project showcases exciting developments in a variety of rising startup communities . If you are interested in having your ecosystem featured , shoot an email to monica@engine.is