Unless you live under a rock , you should know that the age of mainstream virtual reality is fast approaching . According to Statista , the total number of active VR users is predicted to reach 171 million in 2018 . And apart from gaming , brands are also starting to adopt VR into their marketing . Virtual reality also has an impact in the startup ecosystem worldwide . If you want to see this VR boom in action , check out the six virtual reality startups below and keep your eye out for them in 2017 : Medical Augmented Intelligence ( MAI ) is one of the many startups that aim to incorporate virtual reality into education . It features the Acupuncture VR program , which provide students with a live learning platform . MAI 's Acupuncture VR works by connecting instructors and students via live virtual space . Although it focuses on acupuncture , it also offers radiograph filtering , which is useful for studying the human anatomy . The company is also looking to expand into other fields of medical practice . Hopefully , they have something new in store this 2017 . You may think that virtual reality is all about altering what you see . However , SpaceoutVR proves that it should also be about what you hear . SpaceoutVR is a virtual reality app that allows you to create your own virtual multimedia space . Its main selling point is that you can inject your own music playlist into the experience . You can also integrate content from external platforms like Soundcloud , Giphy , Google Search , and YouTube . While SpaceoutVR was founded in 2015 , the app was expected to go mainstream in 2017 . In fact , it was recently featured on NBC 's show - Superstore in February 2017 . The Metaverse Channel is another startup that integrates VR technology with education . They aim to inspire today 's youth by introducing them to historical figures like Einstein and Picasso in a face - to - face model . Just like MAI , the Metaverse Channel augments the learning experience of students with tools and learning resources through VR space . Right now , the company works on custom projects for educators along with virtual set platforms with CBS Digital . A virtual reality startup does n't have to be tied to an existing hardware like the Samsung Gear VR or Oculus Rift . InvisiVision , for example , is a VR / AR startup that makes their own eyewear . The product 's goal is simple - to allow the user to control what they see . InvisiVision 's eyewear works by integrating two different image streams into the user 's vision . The user , in turn , can choose which stream to view . Currently , the company is focusing on the eyewear 's applications in gaming , movies , and interactive marketing . When it comes to storytelling , virtual reality proves to be the most immersive among different content types . That 's why Baobab Studios fully embraces VR technology in their animation projects . The company currently has two flagship characters - Mac and Cheez . Along with their robot sidekick Peas , the blundering duo embarks on adventures that ultimately reveal a brand new market in the cinematic industry . You can check out Mac and Cheez in Asteroids and Invasion using mainstream devices such as the Gear VR , Daydream , Oculus , and HTC Vive . Both apps can be downloaded for free on the studio 's website . Lastly , Drop is an app that , as of February 2017 , is still in its beta stage . It is one of the 20 virtual reality startups funded by HTC in their accelerator program . Drop 's main goal is to reinvent web searches by spicing things up with a virtual reality interface . While the app is still in development , you can become a part of the beta phase by signing up on their site . If you 're interested in utilizing virtual reality in your marketing strategy for your startup , here is an infographic by KnowledgeHut that can help you better understand the marketing applications of this innovative technology :   Read more about virtual reality startups here on Tech . Co   