Despite all the individual glory , startups are nothing without their ecosystems . From mentor advice to VC funding , even the likes of Uber and Snapchat needed help from their environment to make it to the top . And while entrepreneurs tend to play the lone wolf pretty well , a little help can go a long way , which is why Startup Weeks have been such a huge success . This week at Tampa Bay Startup Week powered by Chase for Business , hungry startups , thriving entrepreneurs , and interested investors will head to this warm Florida paradise to make connections , trade secrets , and learn more about the startup world than anywhere else . They 'll be treated to informative workshops , mentoring sessions , and celebrity talks that will make the entrepreneurial hairs on the back of their neck stand on end . Plus , with beautiful beaches , delicious food , and enough pirate lore to make your inner child jump for joy , this week will be nothing short of breathtaking . Additionally , Chase Basecamp , the hub for Startup Week activities for Tampa Bay Startup Week , will be held across two locations this year . First , Basecamp will be held at the Rialto Theater in Tampa from Monday , Feb. 13 through Wednesday , Feb. 15 . Then , the festivities will move to the Station House in St. Petersburg the remaining days on Thursday , Feb. 16 and Friday , Feb. 17 . However , with so many events on the schedule , it can be hard to decide what to pick . Fortunately , we 've put together a must - see list of talks and workshops for each day to get your started .   The Startup Showcase will take place on Day 1 ( Feb 13th ) of Startup Week at the Rialto from 5 pm - 6:30pm . Around 20 local companies will be showcasing and all attendees will have the chance to learn more about the amazing startups in your community ! Then stick around for the Official Kick Off Party where lead organizers , along with Mayor of Tampa Bob Buckhorn , will say a few words to start the party .   In early 2017 , the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy announced their final version of their International Entrepreneurship Rule , which will allow the brightest entrepreneurs from across the globe to grow their companies and innovate in the U.S. to boost the American economy . Join FWD.us to learn about the White House 's International Entrepreneurship Rule and join our work in advancing common sense immigration reform solutions . You can also attend the Bootstrapped without being Strapped panel and read up on the latest advice on Tech . Co .   Cofounder of Techstars Brad Feld will be Skyping into The Hip Room , next door to Chase Basecamp , to speak about how you can impact your startup community and how the community can support you back . Also , do n't forget to get a free professional headshot at Chase Basecamp . This session highlights why measurement will play an integral part in understanding and driving consumer demand for connected devices , and discusses some of the issues and challenges that need to be overcome before the true value proposition of the Internet of Things will be realized .   Walk away from this session with five ways to be a diversity leader in your startup & examples of how it 's impacted the bottom line of businesses . Learn how to hire , retain , evaluate pay , offer flexible benefits , and build a diverse board and/or create a diverse mentoring program for your company 's diversity efforts . Then you can close out the week at the Official Startup Week Finale Block Party with Mayor of St. Petersburg Rick Kriseman and lead organizers .   If you 're interested in attending the Tampa Bay Startup Week festivities , check out this link to attend . You wo n't want to miss out on all the entrepreneurial spirit flowing through this beautiful Florida city from February 13th to February 17th . This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESSis everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .