At any startup event , a couple questions are bound to come up : How can we hire the right people ? How can we craft a healthy company culture ? But the biggest by far is also the simplest . How do we pay for everything ? At this week 's Tampa Bay Startup Week , powered by Chase for Business , four experienced founders , entrepreneurs and experts formed a panel to answer just that , in a wide - ranging discussion covering investments , seed rounds and crowdfunding . The panel , titled " Bootstrapping without being Strapped , " included : Albert Lee , President of Tampa Bay BBIC ; Sandra Anderson , Vice President of Credit Administration at Sunshine State Economic Development ; Charles Long , lead economic development specialist at the U.S. Small Business Administration ( SBA ) ; and Sudhir Venmuri , of NIC Infotek . You can check out an entire video of the Tampa Bay Startup Week event below , but here 's a quick look at some of the best tips the panel members had to offer about the fundraising process . Since the U.S. Small Business Administration ( SBA ) is dedicated to providing a variety of forms of assistance to small businesses , Charles Long 's day job naturally came up . The SBA partner with banks , along with other non - bank lenders and credit unions . Here 's what he had to say on the ways the SBA can help a startup founder : " One of the things we 're most known for is guaranteed loans for small businesses . It can be difficult to get a startup loan , so that is one of those key areas that we [ provide help ] and we have a number of programs to make that happen . " The first step : " There is a lot of good free counseling . We have a couple of paid resource partners who can actually help small businesses put their ducks in a row before you approach a bank or approach any kind of lender . The counseling that 's out there is one of the key things that I always tell small business owners that they really should take advantage of before they go looking for actual lending dollars . " Albert Lee spoke on the hardest part of figuring out your startup game plan : The financial aspect . " Banks look for cash flow . If I 'm an investor I 'm looking for cash flow , because that cash flow is what 's going to pay me back my investment . It 's also what 's going to allow us to build up equity in the business so that at some point we can roll out of this thing and cash out . Numbers are important and you have to pay attention to that . " Focusing on the business plan alone is n't a safe bet , Lee says : " For me personally , I want to see an emphasis on the marketing plan and I want to see an emphasis on projections . I do n't necessarily have to have a 50-page business plan . " From Sandra Anderson : " I 'm always looking for thoughtful business plans , people who have really taken the time to really understand what they 're getting into and they have contingencies , backups , family . " Sudhir Venmuri spoke from past experience : " I worked for ten years , so I had some savings and then I started my business with those savings immediately . When my business closed , that 's when I started taking the help of Chase Bank . Chase has given me a line of credit and then I was able to use that to grow my business and also to feel more secure in the business . " How can you figure out what line of credit you 're qualified for ? By keeping track of any metrics your business has clocked up until now . Remember , banks and loan programs are interested in the numbers . From Lee : " People do n't know how much money to ask for . If you do have a track record and you have a pretty good sense of how your business is tracking -- how it 's growing -- then it makes it a little bit easier for you to come up with an amount that you need . You may only get one shot at the apple . " Technology has made funding more available than ever , Lee holds , and one modern - day example is the phenomenon of crowdfunding , notable for allowing entrepreneurs to determine whether their concept can muster a groundswell of attention : " Crowdfunding is way for you to also find out whether or not people are receptive to your idea . That was something that certainly did n't exist 10 or 15 or 20 years ago that is available to you now , and if people like your idea they can make a decision as to whether or not they want to invest in it or fund it . " Here 's the entire hour - long panel discussion at Tampa Bay Startup Week , complete with a Q&A , from Tech . Co 's Facebook page . Whether you opt for savings , loans , or crowdfunding , the options and -- perhaps more importantly -- the counseling services at Tampa Bay are open to all interested small business owners . Image : Wikimedia This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .