Some people think that great companies only come from the coasts . They believe that New York and San Francisco have bogarted so much talent and capital that there 's no way anyone outside of these tech hubs could possibly create , develop , and sell something of value to the people of the world . And the only thing I have to say to them is that you 're missing out on a lot of great companies from around the country . Last week , I judged the Delta Entrepreneurship Network Pitch Competition , put on by the Delta Regional Authority at New Orleans Entrepreneur Week . I saw a bevy of passionate entrepreneurs from great companies spanning the middle of the country from Missouri to Alabama . And while every startup demonstrated their undeniable value in the national startup ecosystem , two startups stood out as the winners of the pitch competition : Somavac Medical Solutions and HABERDAShe . " Delta Regional Authority is proud to showcase all these Delta businesses that will contribute to the growth of our region and will be a part of our efforts to help create jobs and let the world know that the Delta is open for business , " said Chris Masingill , chairman of the DRA . " All of our participants embody the entrepreneurial spirit that is thriving across the Delta , and they will play a vital role in the continued economic development and job creation in our communities . " Somavac Medical Solutions won the judged competition that took place on Tuesday . They are creating a wearable suction device for the removal and collection of post - surgical fluids after major surgeries , like mastectomies and hernia repairs , that affects more than 750,000 patients a year in the US alone . " This is an incredible opportunity to help build our business and give it the boost it needs to gain more publicity and attention , " said Josh Herwig , cofounder of Somavac . HABERDAShe , on the other hand , won the " Crowd Favorite " award at the showcase the following night . This company is a made - to - measure brand for women 's suiting using a virtual fit digital platform . 3D body scanning extracts customer measurements , virtual fitting rooms mimic the weight , and drape of the fabric so the customer can experience the garment on a personal avatar . Then , computer aided design software ( CAD ) allows us to make one garment at a time to each customer 's fit specifications . " This experience with the DRA has been a great opportunity to network with emerging entrepreneurial talent in the Delta region and I am grateful for this access to technical experience and mentorships , " said Smydge Perry , founder of HABERDAShe . At the pitch competition , each of these startups had that intangible spark that you need to be success in the business world . Somavac 's team was diligent , prepared , and well - researched , all while pitching a product that would not only save money , but would also save lives . HABERDAShe , represented by Perry , demonstrated that passion and know - how can get you a long way , showing off her knowledge of the fashion world and the innovation that 's required to solve its biggest problems . Follow these startups , because they 're going places . Read more about the New Orleans startup ecosystem here on Tech . Co