The Federal Communications Commission 's chairman , Ajit Pai . Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images The Federal Communication Commission on Thursday voted to initiate the process of undoing the net - neutrality rules put in place during the Obama administration . The vote fell 2 - 1 along party lines , with Republicans Ajit Pai , the chairman , and Michael O'Rielly voting in favor of Pai 's proposal to reverse the rules . Democrat Mignon Clyburn voted against . The vote does not mean the existing net - neutrality rules are dead . Instead , the FCC will now seek further public comment before finalizing an order that would undo the rules in earnest . That order will require another vote , most likely later this year . Even if the commission passes that order , that would n't necessarily end the matter . The new rules will almost certainly be challenged in court by proponents of the Obama - era rules . That could be an extended process . It took about 10 months for the current net - neutrality rules to go from proposal to official policy , then another 15 months to be upheld in court . But the vote Thursday has fired the starting gun . Today 's net - neutrality rules classify internet service providers like Comcast and Verizon as utility - like " common carriers " under Title II of the Communications Act . That classification gave the FCC broad authority to dictate what ISPs could do within their networks . Democratic commissioner Mignon Clyburn , Pai , and Republican commissioner Michael O'Rielly . FCC Most notably , the FCC used that Title II authority to preemptively ban ISPs from blocking , slowing the speeds of , or prioritizing certain traffic on their network for financial gain . AT&T , for instance , can not slow down Google 's YouTube TV service so that it 's less appealing than its own DirecTV Now service . Nor can it let Google pay a fee for faster speeds , something a startup would be less capable of doing . Pai 's proposal aims to strip that Title II classification for ISPs and reverse them back to being Title I " information service providers . " That is what they were considered before the current rules . Pai says the expanded FCC authority -- including a " general conduct " rule that lets the FCC strike down future abuses that are n't explicitly covered by the official rules -- has depressed ISPs ' willingness to invest in their networks . Pai 's proposal expresses support for the " no blocking " rule but seeks comment on whether any of the core net - neutrality rules are necessary . Republicans and various ISPs feel it 's best to punish any abuses after the fact , instead of preemptively eliminating the possibility of misconduct with what they see as heavy - handed regulation . Proponents of net neutrality protesting against Pai outside the American Enterprise Institute before his arrival May 5 in Washington , DC . Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images Proponents of the current rules -- namely Democrats , consumer - advocacy groups , and internet - based companies both big and small -- say Title II authority is necessary to actually enforce net neutrality , and they argue that network investment has not been harmed by the Obama - era rules . Weakening those rules would open the door for ISPs to play favorites , and thus stifle competition , they say . Clyburn , for one , decried Pai 's proposal as a " hollow theory of trickle - down economics " at the FCC 's public meeting on Thursday . Major ISPs like Comcast , Verizon , and AT&T have said they will not block or throttle content should the rules be reversed . The FCC twice tried to impose net - neutrality rules using Title I authority before the current rules were enacted in 2015 , and it was defeated in court by ISP lawsuits on both occasions . Pai has said he would welcome congressional action that would turn net - neutrality principles into law , though it 's not clear what such a bill would look like with the ongoing gridlock in Washington . Eric Gaillard / Reuters In any case , the debate is a heated one . Various Democrats in Congress have pledged to protest Pai 's intentions , and some consumer - advocacy groups have already disrupted FCC meetings in support of the Obama - era rules . More than 2.1 million public comments have already been filed since Pai issued his notice of proposed rulemaking -- many spurred by comedian John Oliver 's call to preserve the rules -- though hundreds of thousands of those comments appear to have been generated by bots , bringing their authenticity into question . Expect things to intensify on both the internet and Capitol Hill from here .