Even if you love your job , the minutiae of your everyday tasks can get pretty boring over time . Whether it 's filling in data sheets or making sales calls , work life can be harder when you do n't have someone to share it with . Fortunately , in most office settings , there are a number of employees that share your angst when it comes to the startup grind . And if you want to make sure work is easy everyday , you need to get yourself a work best friend . According to a study conducted by professors from the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Minnesota , having a friend at work makes you more productive . The facts are undeniable that friendships in the workplace have a positive effect on the company culture and the work that gets done . Here are five benefits that come from having a work best friend : According to the study , friends at work were notably more inclined to communicate with their coworkers . Because of their shared experience and extensive past , pointing out mistakes and sharing successes was not impeded by awkward social cues and concern about hurting someone 's feelings . When friends work together , it 's about more than just the work project . Friends collaborating creates a feeling of necessity to complete the work , not just for the company , but for the sake of their friendship . Because the only thing worse than making your boss angry is letting down a friend . Work best friends do n't only have a positive effect on employees ; they also benefit the company as a whole . Employees are significantly less inclined to quit a job at which they have a friend . This means less turnover for employers , and more productivity in the long run . Establishing a productive company culture can be difficult . Sure , happy hours and team building activities are great , but if you do n't have anyone actually engaging , they 'll just end up as wasted time . But when friends work together , they relish any opportunity they get to socialize outside of work , spurring a community aspect to your company that would otherwise go unattainable . In the simplest of terms , having a friend at work is fun . It makes coming to the office enjoyable and keeps work projects from feeling like a chore . Whether it 's an early morning meeting or a late - afternoon presentation , having someone to gossip with , to joke around with , or to just chat with will always make employees happy to come into work .