The UK Department for International Trade 's ( DIT ) gamified pitching event , Startup Games , wrapped up its first Australian event yesterday at The Mint in Sydney , with local fintech startup Nod securing victory .   The event saw over fifty entrepreneurs pitching to a crowd of investors for virtual seed capital , which could be awarded to them using the Startup Games app .   Each participant also heard keynote addresses from a lineup of local and international startup names including Redballoon founder Naomi Simson , cofounder of UK accelerator The Bakery London , and lead of Tyro , Andrew - Corbett Jones .    At the end of the day , Nod was declared the winner after earning over GBP$110 million ( AUD$177 million ) in virtual funds .   Nod , which is developing an online platform which connects everyday users and businesses with questions regarding money to professional financial advisors on - demand , will reap the competition 's rewards through a trip to the UK .   Here , the startup will participate in London Tech week , where the team will be exposed to mentoring and support from a network of VCs , angel investors and successful entrepreneurs . Previously speaking about the event 's announcement in January , Director General for the UK DIT in Australia and New Zealand , Nick McInnes , said the purpose of UK trip is to help Australian startups learn about UK expansion . " The UK offers a very friendly environment for Australian startups looking to grow their business internationally . Some of the reasons why startups should consider the UK include low tax rates , access to finance and world - class hubs and accelerators , " he said . Discussing yesterday 's event , British Consul General for DIT Australian and New Zealand , Michael Ward , said the organisation looks forward to working with Nod to help them lay the foundations for future the in the UK . " Yesterday provided a fantastic opportunity for the startup community to come together , practice their pitches and receive advice from leaders in their field . We look forward to working with Nod on a programme for their trip to London , " said Ward . Nod 's cofounder , Joel Robbie , said he and his fellow cofounders are looking forward to the trip , and hopes the experience will propel their fintech platform . " We 're just getting our head around what the UK trip could mean for our company but we know it represents an amazing opportunity that we 'll take with both hands , " said Robbie . Coming in second place with GBP$65 million was Sydney healthtech startup Cancer Aid , which is working to allow cancer patients to track their treatment , while third place went to betting app Punt Club with $ 54 million .   The Startup Games emerged from the DIT 's flagship Global Entrepreneur Program , which aims to create initiatives that will attract high quality startups to the UK .   Last year 's event was held over two days in Rio de Janeiro to coincide with the Olympics , and also saw fifty startups participating .