If you were starting a business 20 years ago , you 'd typically spend most of your time running around town searching for customers , investors , and mentors . In a single day , you might only have time for one meeting with a customer and another with an investor . If you were lucky , you could squeeze in a meeting with a mentor . Carving out time to work on your actual product generally meant sacrificing sleep . In the mid-2000s , accelerators such as Y Combinator and Techstars changed the startup world . Instead of founders having to go out to visit mentors , investors , and customers , accelerators made it possible for these groups to come directly to startups to offer their support . That remarkable shift was enough to propel the success of companies such as Dropbox , Airbnb , Reddit , and others . Several hundred successful accelerators now operate throughout the world , and most of them follow a similar model . For about three months , a group of startups ( usually 10 at a time ) work together in one location . During that time , these startups are surrounded by dozens of mentors and exposed to priceless resources and expert knowledge . Toward the end of the three - month period , customers and investors are invited to meet with the startups to decide whether they want to invest in or work with the companies . Unfortunately , not all accelerators are created equal . My company works with more than 80 accelerators around the world , and we have seen plenty of good and bad patterns along the way . I 've seen quite a few stories of tremendous growth after startups find a like - minded accelerator , but that does n't mean you should run out and join the first accelerator you stumble across . By now , you might think an accelerator is exactly what your startup needs . If you 're looking to help your startup blossom , an accelerator can definitely fuel your growth . But do n't assume an accelerator is your meal ticket to guaranteed success . This might sound confusing coming from a guy who oversees a network of accelerators , but the truth is that they simply are n't the best fit for every startup . Before you join one , be sure to conduct a thorough assessment of your business and goals . Here are four steps I would take before joining an accelerator : When I ask founders , " What do you need the most help with ? " they usually say capital and customers . That might be true , but every company needs those two ingredients -- even Google and Microsoft rely on capital and customers . I usually follow up with clarifying questions . Do they need $ 1 million or $ 100 million ? What kind of customers do they need ? Are those customers in the company 's market ? I want to help founders recognise blind spots and take an honest look at their company before seeking assistance . I visited Auckland , New Zealand , last year and spent time working with startup founders who needed funding . I was taken aback by how few of them had heard about ICE Angels or Lightning Lab , two amazing groups that are fueling the next wave of startups in the country . You might not even need an accelerator if you 've already found funding through one of these groups . I 'd encourage founders in emerging markets -- and really all over the world -- to do some research about what 's next door before they go globetrotting to find an accelerator . I 'm shocked by how many startups believe they must go " somewhere else " to get customers . When I was at my first startup , I often hopped on a plane instead of talking with customers in my backyard . Even if you do n't have a solid local audience , you can always build one . One of my good friends , Andy Stoll , invited entrepreneurs and innovators to Iowa City to attend EntreFEST . There was n't any sort of conference to bring together the startups , corporations , investors , and educators in and around Iowa , so Andy decided to build one from scratch . It 's now one of the preeminent startup conferences in the U.S. Once you 've taken the previous steps , you should ask each accelerator you 're considering whether it has mentors and customers who can help you work through the exact problems you face . If you 're trying to reach certain customers , can they help you find them ? Can the accelerator help you source the sort of funding you need ? You also should n't be afraid to ask for the names of experts who work with the accelerator . If accelerator officials are n't able to give you a solid answer or seem overly vague , consider it a red flag that they probably do n't have the tools necessary to help you . Thankfully , you probably do n't have to go far to find people and resources that can help you build your company . Next time you catch yourself dreaming about -- or dreading -- flying across the globe in search of resources , take a moment to seek potential investors and customers in your own community . They 'd probably love to help you build your dream right where you are . Feature image : Susanne Nilsson via Flickr .