Startup activity is happening in the most unlikely of places . The # StartupEverywhere series , developed by Engine , is designed to celebrate these diverse , vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystems growing across the U.S. These profiles will dive into the challenges faced by these communities and look at what sets them apart from the traditional technology hubs . Lucas Lindsey , Executive Director of Domi Station , a Tallahassee - based entrepreneurial support organization , is all about building a diverse ecosystem in his community . This time for the # StartupEverywhere series , he talks with me about breaking down barriers , investments , diversity , grassroots movements and the impact of public policies . I 'm the Executive Director of Domi Education , a 501(c)(3 ) economic development organization with a mission focused on educating and empowering entrepreneurs . We believe entrepreneurship support is the most sustainable and cost - effective economic development strategy . Our vision is to play a central role in building the most diverse startup community in the Southeast . We empower and amplify the work of others . Today Domi is a startup incubator and coworking space , but we 're always adapting to meet the needs of North Florida 's evolving ecosystem . We offer programs , resources , and events that help entrepreneurs start and scale sustainable companies . Our regional network enables us to match our members to seasoned mentors , investors , and industry advisors . Read more on how your startup could get noticed by investors First , there 's an unprecedented level of collaboration in Tallahassee . Organizations are partnering like never before , aligning strategic plans , co - funding shared programs , co - developing new initiatives . It 's really exciting . Second , Tallahassee has an opportunity to lead on inclusion . By creating partnerships across organizations and neighborhoods , we have the chance to upend the stereotype of the South and build a startup community that breaks down barriers . Domi is well positioned as a central connector and collaborative broker . Finally , we have growing access to capital . A year and a half ago , the Florida Angel Nexus started a Tallahassee chapter , which has impacted our community . They 've already invested $ 1.7 million across eight deals , and they 're planning to launch their own fund within the next year . Tallahassee 's universities are doing excellent research and have successfully commercialized a number of technologies . Additionally , they are producing quality graduates who are passionate about technology and well prepared for roles in the startup economy . There has also been a number of grassroots movements among the students to create tech - focused groups , such as ( an interdisciplinary student group that focuses on teaching people to code and product development ) and HackFSU ( a student - organized hackathon ) .   Tallahassee and Leon County are a case study in progressive local policy support . Leon County kicked things off early on by partnering with Domi . They created a long - term affiliation agreement , renovated a centrally located warehouse that 's now home to Domi Station , abated our rent ( allowing us time to develop a track record ) , and they 're constantly looking for opportunities to assist startups as an early client or promotional partner . The City of Tallahassee , led by Mayor Andrew Gillum , has also taken a progressive approach . They brought us a TechHire designation , have begun architecting tech workforce development programs , and launched the Tallahassee Innovation Partnership , which is a pitch series that connects startups to procurement officials in local government , state government , and higher education . We face real challenges across the board . None are insurmountable , but each one takes strategy and vision to tackle head - on . Our biggest need is a bullpen of serial entrepreneurs with industry experience and technical chops -- not easy for a small city that 's long relied on higher education and state government to fuel its economy . I 'm keeping my eye on : Read more about ecosystems around the country at Tech . Co This article is courtesy of Engine 's # StartupsEverywhere series , a campaign celebrating the diverse , vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystems that are taking root in every corner of the country . Through weekly profiles of startup ecosystem leaders , the project showcases exciting developments in a variety of rising startup communities . If you are interested in having your ecosystem featured , shoot an email to monica@engine.is