Remitly has something to say about the current immigration climate in the United States . The Seattle startup , which makes it easy for immigrants to send money to their families back home via a mobile app , launched a campaign this week designed to show the human stories behind those money transfers . # WhyIsend is a social media initiative highlighting the reasons Remitly 's customers relinquish portions of their paychecks . Here are some of their stories : " We send money to Mexico for things we take for granted here . I wish I could send more . " - Celia V. of Greeley , CO # WhyISend pic.twitter.com/CQfDJE9RRQ -- Remitly ( @remitly ) February 22 , 2017 " I 've lived in the US 5 years . # WhyISend ? Family . I want them 2 know I 'll help even when we 're miles apart . " -Roselynn W. in Charleston , SC pic.twitter.com/n0eCH54z2f -- Remitly ( @remitly ) February 15 , 2017 We 're from the lower class . Mom always worked very hard 2 feed us . It 's my turn 2 give 2 her . - Chris P. of Glendale Heights , IL # WhyISend pic.twitter.com/RpnwpLQhsm -- Remitly ( @remitly ) February 23 , 2017 " My girl and our new born son is # WhyISend to Mexico . " - Jose C. of Tucson , AZ https://t.co/sPUid7suBW pic.twitter.com/wxsHGvpRlE -- Remitly ( @remitly ) February 22 , 2017 I left family in the Philippines in ' 08 . It 's hard but I need to do this 4 their future . - Jhan L. in L.A. # WhyISend https://t.co/sPUid7suBW pic.twitter.com/ajhlHiSjis -- Remitly ( @remitly ) February 14 , 2017 In addition to the social media campaign , Remitly surveyed thousands of employees to collect data on why they send money home . Some of the key findings are included below . The campaign comes amid the Trump administration 's crack down on immigration and increased deportations . Remitly is concerned about the president 's promises to halt or tax remittances sent from the U.S. to Mexico . " I am constantly humbled and inspired by the way our customers contribute billions of dollars to the American economy while also selflessly sharing their hard - earned paychecks with loved ones back home , leaving very little left over for themselves , " Remitly CEO Matt Oppenheimer said in a press release . " These dollars make a big impact in local communities . For customers that send home $ 200-$300 on average , an additional tax on remittance would only take away from hard - working immigrants and their families in need on the receiving end . " Remitly said it processed $ 2 billion in remittances over the past 12 months , doubling the volume of transactions it handles . The app currently facilitates money transfers to ten countries in Latin America and Asia , including Mexico , India , and the Philippines .