Arivale CEO Clayton Lewis and co - founder Lee Hood , center , accept the award for Startup of the Year at the 2016 GeekWire Awards . ( GeekWire Photo )   The 2017 GeekWire Awards are less than a month away , so that means it 's time to vote for the iconoclastic tinkerers , entrepreneurs and business leaders who are reshaping the way we live , work and play . We 're kicking off online voting today , and we 're doing it in style with one of the biggest award categories : Startup of the Year . This year 's finalists are looking to revolutionize everything from transportation to retail to auto maintenance . The finalists also include a Fred Hutch spin - out that 's pioneering a treatment for Leukemia , and a well - funded cloud tech startup that 's led by the co - creators of Kubernetes . It 's one of the strongest finalist groups we 've ever seen . Now , it 's up to you to help pick the winner . To qualify for this award , startup companies had to be based in the Pacific Northwest and four years old or less . We received dozens of nominations from GeekWire readers , and our illustrious judging panel helped us winnow the group to the five finalists . You can read more about each company and cast your ballot for one of the five finalists for Startup of the Year in the poll below . Over the next two weeks , we 're opening voting in 14 GeekWire Awards categories , with GeekWire readers choosing their top picks from finalists selected by our panel of judges from community nominations . Check back on GeekWire each day to cast your ballots . All of the winners will be revealed at the GeekWire Awards -- presented by Wave Business -- on May 4 at the Museum of Pop Culture . Tickets are on sale for the big Awards show , but we sell out each year , so do n't snooze if you want to join the fun . Tickets available here . A big thanks to League for sponsoring the Startup of the Year category . And , since we all know startup life can be stressful with plenty of ups and downs , each of the five finalists in this year 's Startup of the Year category will receive a three - hour on - site visit from League 's team of certified massage professionals . You 'll be refreshed and limbered up by the time the Awards hit on May 4th !    Convoy : 10 - 4 good buddy ! This Seattle startup is making inroads in transforming the trucking industry , creating a more efficient way to match truckers with the loads they carry . It 's an $ 800 billion industry in the U.S. , and Convoy has some big believers . Led by former Amazon general manager Dan Lewis , Convoy raised $ 16 million in venture capital last year from a who 's who in the tech industry , including Amazon founder Jeff Bezos , LinkedIn co - founder Reid Hoffman , Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff , Greylock and others . It also scored a major coup earlier this year when it poached Tim Prouty -- formerly of Uber and Isilon -- as its engineering leader . Heptio : You do n't see many startup teams with the technical chops found at Heptio , which emerged last year with an $ 8.5 million series A investment from Accel and Madrona Venture Group . Heptio co - founders Craig McLuckie and Joe Beda were two of the original founders of the Google - based Kubernetes project , big names in the world of cloud computing and containerized software . Before that , they cut their teeth at Microsoft . Now , at Heptio , they see an opening to create a set of services around Kubernetes , an open source technology that helps developers manage large fleets of containers . It 's geeky stuff , and Heptio sees an opportunity . " It became clear to Joe and me that there 's a gap we 'd like to fill , which is providing this very neutral , open , community - friendly company to continue to evolve the agenda we started when were were inside Google , " McLuckie told GeekWire last fall . Nohla Therapeutics : A 2015 spin - out from the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center , Nohla Therapeutics is looking to transform the treatment of blood cancers through unique universal donor cellular therapies . The company , which uses technology originally pioneered by scientist and Chief Medical Officer Colleen Delaney , received a ringing endorsement last year when it scored a $ 43.5 million Series A investment from Arch Venture Partners , 5AM Ventures , and The Jagen Group , bringing total funding to $ 65 million . It also tapped pharmaceutical veteran Kathleen Fanning as its CEO earlier this year . ReplyYes : Seattle has a history of pioneering retail technology . And ReplyYes , led by startup vet and former Amazon general manager Dave Cotter , is looking to make the next stride in how products are sold . A spinout of Madrona Venture Labs , ReplyYes describes itself as a chat commerce startup , essentially making it easy for retailers to sell products via text message . It 's first offering , The Edit , is focused on vinyl record sales , and allows customers to purchase records by simply replying " yes " to an offer . " It 's ridiculously frictionless , " Cotter told GeekWire last year . ReplyYes has raised $ 6.5 million in startup financing . Wrench : Going to the auto mechanic shop to get your car fixed might rank right up there with dental visits . So , what if the auto mechanic came to you ? That 's the idea behind Wrench , a Seattle startup that brings car maintenance to your front door . Wrench , which raised $ 4 million in funding last month and is led by Seattle native and former InfoSpace exec Ed Petersen , currently operates its on - demand car mechanic service in Seattle , Phoenix , San Diego and Portland . Dubbed an Uber for car mechanics , Wrench 's network of mechanics will work on cars in driveways , parking garages or office parking lots , with the company saying it can complete about 80 percent of maintenance issues on site . The company employs 30 people .