Recently , I published an article about 17 South African startups to watch out for 2017 . The piece included a range of well - known companies that achieved some pretty amazing things in 2016 , such as Zoona , OfferZen , and Rainfin . Among those included was micro - jobbing platform M4JAM , which had to be sold last year . Apparently , this has caused some consternation among a few readers . I think it 's time to add in my two cents to this topic . What spurred me on to write this opinion piece was the culmination of two tweets by the same author ( and without mentioning names in order to avoid social media ' dog - piling ' ) . One of them read : " [ ... ] articles like that hurt rather than help the industry / entrepreneurs wanting to get started in it " . To me , this is a very narrow - minded statement and one that does n't just hurt startups , but businesses overall . I hate using such a crass and ignorant word , but the reality is that startups " fail " . There 's the generalisation that nine out of 10 business fail . Hell , a large portion of business do n't even make it past year one . The failure of companies can happen for a number of reasons , such as ill - management , products that do n't work in the market , going into business with the wrong people , and more . In the case of M4JAM , it 's a startup that actually succeeded for a while . The company had managed to find investment , pulled in a big name , and even purchased another company . Now that 's the kind of success that entrepreneurs strive towards . Unfortunately , it fell apart . Last year , M4JAM 's founder , Andre Hugo , confirmed to then Ventureburn reporter , Stuart Thomas , that the company needed to find a buyer , otherwise it would close down . It 's never been publicly stated what lead to this turn of events for a startup that was on the rise . Not long after , it was announced that M4JAM had actually found a buyer in the form of Informal Solutions . A re - launch was on the horizon , but M4JAM has been a bit on the quiet side over the past few months . Then we come to the second tweet that was asked of me : " How is a co that fails / goes bankrupt ' one to watch ? ' " The answer is that it 's not failure , but rather a show of promise , if not for M4JAM , then for other businesses in similar situations . The sale of a company on its way out is n't something to scoff at or look down upon , but it is something to give hope to those wanting to start their own company . The irony is that both of those tweets were sent from an iPhone , which is a product created by Apple . This is a company that saw one of the biggest comebacks in business history . To summarise Apple 's story : after Steve Jobs was ousted from the company he had founded , the position of CEO was given to John Sculley , a man who had previously held the same position at Pepsi Co. After numerous product flops and going through another two CEOs , Jobs was eventually brought back to a company that was on the verge of bankruptcy . He began restructuring the company , Apple launched the iMac in 1998 and , well , the rest is history . Not bad for a company that almost filed for bankruptcy to having a market value of US$ 605-billion . According to Ventureburn 's stats for 2016 , over 30% of you will have read this article on an Apple device . Apple is n't the only company to rise from the ashes after falling profits and products . A few of these comebacks can be seen in everyday brands , such as Marvel Comics , Nintendo , Converse ( which actually filed for bankruptcy ) , Netflix , Starbucks , and even Lego . All of these brands had massive failures in some way or another , and eventually bounced back . In no way am I saying that M4JAM will make a comeback and be the company it once was ( that 's up to the decisions of its new management regime and their product strategy -- I have no horse in that race ) . What I am saying is do n't count out a company because it failed in the past . It 's a very narrow - minded approach to have . Feature image : Christopher Ross via Flickr . Nice one Graham . Brilliantly handled . Failure should not be seen as a loss . Rather an opportunity to pursue an even better path . I sure hope M4JAM rises out of the ashes .