For years , testing has proved a steep challenge for efficient and effective software development . Even today , testing is clunky , inconsistent , and time consuming . It 's widely recognized that testing automation is at best partial , and is the number one bottleneck in the software development and information technology operations ( DevOps ) toolchain . Once relegated to the startup and entrepreneurial sphere , DevOps has grown into a business imperative for any organization that wants to stay ahead of the game . The DevOps movement was birthed from a demand for innovation in the systems side of technology work , which had settled into a state of stagnation despite years of effort to improve the methodology of running systems . Borrowing from the theoretical elements of the Agile manifesto and other lean approaches , DevOps has progressed software development and delivery by establishing a platform where developers and operations engineers can work together throughout the entire service lifecycle . This integrative shift creates a culture and environment conducive of building , testing , and releasing software in a rapid yet reliable way . It 's no wonder that DevOps now represents the present and future of software delivery . In an ever increasingly VUCA ( Volatile , Uncertain , Complex , and Ambiguous ) marketplace , DevOps provides the recipe for fast , flexible , and efficient work that makes sure you do n't fall behind . By de - compartmentalizing the steps of system realization with a supporting background of esprit de corps , the DevOps approach prevents difficulties in collaborating between different departments that do n't always see eye to eye . Further focusing on a culture of integration , shared goals , and teamwork , the DevOps toolchain promotes agility and efficiency in place of inter - team friction and struggles . DevOps also adds substantial visibility into the development and release processes , allowing companies to better deal with environmental pressures and respond more quickly to customer needs . DevOps therefore provides that competitive edge that every company yearns for . Unfortunately , one element that has not yet caught up with this spirit of agility and efficiency is software testing , a critical part of the DevOps toolchain and software production in general . To date , well over 50 percent of business software testing is performed manually , which requires much more time and effort . Clearly , this is both frustrating and inefficient . More importantly , it simply does not align with the DevOps values of flexibility and lean principles . There are a few budding startups now offering an interesting solution : Codeless Automated Testing . This Tel Aviv - based company offers a SaaS - based intuitive UI for Selenium open - source framework . It allows testers that are experts in their business domain   - but are not coders - to create automated tests simply by describing test scenarios on a virtual online canvas , which TestCraft then turns into Selenium automation code . Testers can then run the tests on TestCraft 's SaaS platform without any agents on the tester device - Windows or Mac . TestCraft seamlessly integrates with Test Management solutions to provide a holistic testing cycle .   Similar approaches were attempted in the past by recorders and KDT ( Keyword Driven Testing ) , but these were only partially successful . TestingWhiz , a project of Cygnet Infotech , is a Codeless Automated Testing Tool for software , mobile , cloud , database , web and API testing . The tool provides the ability to do image comparison , scheduling , distributed execution , through multiple browsers and captcha automation . And also it is integrated with bug tracking , and test management tools . Endtest lets you to conceive , manage and run automated tests for Web Applications , without needing to code anything . It also includes a few nifty   features , like the ability to take screenshots , and generate random input data . Plus , because you can run your tests directly on their cloud infrastructure , you do n't have to download and install any software . The essence of DevOps is to be agile and lean by cutting out unnecessary obstacles that slow and complicate software creation . Streamlining the process by eliminating bulky coding requirements should enable testing that is easy to use and maintain . Aside from resolving other testing issues that have bogged down system development for years , this approach could well represent the future of the DevOps . Read more about software development here on Tech . Co