While tech hubs like San Francisco and New York boast some of the most innovative companies in the world , the value of local ecosystems can not be understated , particularly when it comes to promoting diversity in tech . These smaller markets are filled with innovative ideas , hungry entrepreneurs , and enough passion to make Elon Musk blush . And if you want to see the power of a local ecosystem in full swing , New Orleans Entrepreneur Week was the place to do it . As the ninth annual festival kicked off last week , startup founders , tech leaders , and aspiring entrepreneurs descended on the beautiful Louisiana city in hopes meeting their next mentor , investor , cofounder , or new friend . Each day showcased a bevy of qualified startups , in addition to providing workshops , interactive discussions , and keynote speeches from Leslie Miley of Slack , Suzanne DiBianca of Salesforce , and many more to an ecosystem that is ready to explode onto the global scene . " It 's about showcasing the great work that the community is doing , " said Victoria Adams Phipps , executive producer of New Orleans Entrepreneur Week in an interview with Tech . Co . " The most interesting thing has been seeing interest from communities across the southeast that want to join in on the experience . " While some may shrug at the idea of an intimate conference in a non - tech hub city , the value of events like these are undeniable for budding ecosystems . Not only does it give founders and investors a chance to possibly meet their next big venture partner , it also allows the community of aspiring entrepreneurs to meet , greet , and be inspired by some of the most influential people in the tech world , as well as local business moguls that could turn their small pipe dream into a thriving New Orleans company . " With the size of New Orleans , we certainly have a lot more resources and opportunity than a lot of rural parts throughout the South and Delta region , " said Emily Madero , Acting CEO of The Idea Village and producer of New Orleans Entrepreneur Week in an interview with Tech . Co . " But at the same time , you feel this really welcoming , collaborative , and inclusive culture and there 's a real opportunity to be a big fish in a small pond . " Emily Madero ( left ) and Victoria Adams Phipps ( right ) Launched by The Idea Village in 2009 as the IDEAcorps Challenge , the festival was originally a program designed to engage MBAs and corporate volunteers from across the country . It developed through recovery efforts after Hurricane Katrina , when business students decided that the best way to rebuild New Orleans was n't through infrastructure but through meaningful business growth . " Initially , we did n't set out to create a festival , " said Phipps . " New Orleans Entrepreneur Week grew out of recover efforts post - Hurricane Katrina . We were getting phone calls from MBA students from across the country who wanted to contribute to the recovery efforts , but they did n't necessarily want to come down and help rebuild someone 's roof . They wanted to leverage the skills they were building in business school and apply those to local companies . And they used us as a conduit for making those connections . " After nine years , clearly The Ideas Village is doing something right . Whether it 's the free entry that 's spurring anyone with an entrepreneurial bone in their body to participate or the commitment to supporting businesses from the area , this festival has became a staple of the New Orleans startup community , and the community as a whole . And , like any great company , the secret to their success lies within the team . " The secret to our success is the team , " said Madero . " We have an amazing team that , as individuals , are inspiring , hard working leaders . But also , this is a grassroots collaboration . It is n't a fancy tech conference with a high price of entrance that makes people feel removed as individuals . Everybody here has a part in bringing this to life . " Simply put , New Orleans Entrepreneur Week is what a tech conference should be . They 've created the perfect balance of professionalism and intimacy that would make even the strangest outsider feel welcomed , while nurturing the entrepreneurial spirit of everyone that walks into the event . Plus , in a city like New Orleans , being passionate and feeling like you belong is always on the menu . Well , that and beignets . Read more about the New Orleans startup ecosystem here at Tech . Co   