Symphony CEO David Gurle . Symphony Symphony , the secure chat app backed by some of Wall Street 's biggest banks , has raised $ 63 million ( PS48.8 million ) . Palo Alto - based Symphony announced on Tuesday that it has raised the sum from French bank BNP Paribas and its existing shareholders , which include Goldman Sachs and Google . Olivier Osty , BNP Paribas ' executive head of global markets , says : " Digital transformation is central to BNP Paribas Global Markets ' strategy , and collaboration with fintechs is a crucial part of that process . " BNP announced in February plans to double investment in technology to EUR3 billion ( PS2.5 billion , $ 3.2 billion ) over the next three years as part of plans to adapt to changing consumer behaviour and cut costs . Osty says : " Forming agile partnerships with exciting and innovative companies like Symphony helps us deliver an exceptional service to clients , and remain their partner of choice in a changing world . " Symphony is a like Slack for banks . It allows bankers and other people working in highly regulated environments to benefit from enterprise encryption and security while they chat online , either through text or voice . The platform has evolved , and third - party apps can be installed to show financial data , monitor sentiment on Twitter , and perform tasks such as charting . Partners include Dow Jones and IHS Markit . David Gurle , Symphony 's founder and CEO , says in a statement announcing the new investment : " This financing is a recognition of the value our customers have experienced as the Symphony community has grown . " Our customers ' desire to make Symphony their central platform and replace legacy tools is an endorsement of the efficiencies brought by an integrated collaboration platform and streamlined workflow . " Symphony will use the fresh funding to " accelerate expansion , to drive growth in both its current and new markets , and further build out its feature stack to deliver a new wave of innovation to enterprises and replace traditional collaboration tools . " Symphony has been spearheaded by some of Wall Streets biggest banks . Goldman Sachs , Bank of America Merrill Lynch , Citigroup , Credit Suisse , Deutsche Bank , Jefferies , Wells Fargo and Morgan Stanley bought chat app Perzo in October 2014 and invested over $ 60 million ( PS46.5 million ) into it to relaunch it as a financial chat app . Tuesday 's funding injection means it has raised over $ 200 million ( PS155.1 million ) . Google came on as an investor in 2015 . The investment from Wall Street banks back in 2014 was seen as a conscious effort to move away from reliance on Bloomberg terminals after a scandal in 2013 when it emerged that Bloomberg journalists could see what clients were reading on their terminals . Gurle has played down the rivalry with Bloomberg , telling Business Insider Symphony 's goal is to replace workplace email , not Bloomberg . However , Bloomberg appears to see Symphony as a threat and has sought to lobby against the rival product in Europe . Symphony has over 200,000 paying users , up from 116,000 last October . Get the latest Goldman Sachs stock price here .