Enterprise EMEA 2017 is a great event for everyone looking for networking and business opportunities in the enterprise software industry . Hosted by Widebridge Group , the event is going to take place on May 23 in London and will bring togeter CEOs , CTOs , and CIOs from around the EMEA region . Enterprise EMEA is an invite - only event , but you can apply for an invite through the event 's website . Greg Wolf , founder of the Enterprise EMEA conference and Widebridge Group , stated : " With all the hype around consumer focused startups like Snap and Uber , none of them would be able to do what they do without enterprise software . Enterprise software is like the digital picks and shovels behind the success of all businesses , and is a much larger market than the consumer market . " According to the organisers , there is a lack of enterprise software events that encompass the entire enterprise , especially in Europe . That 's why Greg and his team created Enterprise EMEA , an event focused on enterprise technology - for the startups , investors , and the ultimate buyers of these companies . An event where all get together to foster more investments , more knowledge sharing and more deals . Several companies that attended last year 's edition of Enterprise EMEA have raised large rounds of funding or exited with big acquisitions over the last 12 months , such as London 's Weaveworks , which raised $ 15 million last May from Google Ventures and Accel , or PNMsoft , which was acquired by Genpact .   Greg Wolf further explained : " Enterprise EMEA is unique in the enterprise tech world . Most of the large vendors like Cisco , Microsoft , SAP , etc . all have their own large events . We bring executives from all of those companies together to network with each other , with the startups and with the investors in their ecosystem . " Among the speakers and attendees will be representatives from companies like Microsoft , Salesforce and SAP as well as investors from firms such as Atomico , Lakestar , Index Ventures , Blackstone and KKR . One of the many even highlights will be a panel discussion on how EMEA enterprise startups can find success on a global scale . It will be joined by Balderton Capital 's managing partner Bernard Liautaud , who before joining Balderton , was the founder of BusinessObjects , which got acquired for $ 6.8 billion by SAP in one of Europe 's biggest enterprise tech exits till date . As mentioned in the beginning of this article , Enterprise EMEA is invite - only . To request an invite and for more details please visit the event 's website .