startup pitches . Company : Qubed . Headquarters : New York . Founding Team : Rob Kingyens , Ankit Dhir and Michael Godshall . Why we like it : Because when someone answers that in their spare time they check out the latest news in the fashion world before heading back to slog through files all day , something sounds off . Filing and fashion are n't on the same page , unless they 're one of those amazing people who get a buzz from organizing all day everyday .   Money does n't control everything . Maybe just that fancy car , sophisticated bar and latest iPhone product . But believe it or not , millennials actually want an interesting job . If millennials do n't like their job , productivity will drop . If productivity drops , things wo n't get done . If things are n't done , businesses wo n't make sales . If business do n't make sales , they fail . And now no one has a job and no one makes money . Qubed connects millennial to the right career options most suited to who they are . Qubed 's discovery programs inspire the next generation of talent to pursue a career path that aligns with their passions . These programs are formed from their partnership with globally recognised universities , industry experts and employers in fields such as sport , fashion , music , tech , design and media . Let 's be specific . Qubed has partnered with the faculty of Columbia to created a sports industry essentials online certificate , featuring lessons from sports industry professionals from places such as the National Football League , Nike , National Hockey League etc .   Perhaps like the fashion - loving bored office worker , a career in fashion will align better with their passion . Even the world of rhyme agrees . Through Qubed 's partnership with Parsons School of Design they provide a fashion industry essentials online certificate . The program is 100 percent online , self - paced and open access to any student who wants to explore the possibilities in the fashion industry within their busy schedule . This fashion industry essential program has five available courses taught by more than 20 instructors from leaders in the fashion industry . These courses help students gain insights into the fashion industry and if they really are a fashion lover they can be prepared for a successful future in fashion .   So before a millennial unenthusiastically applies for a new job in a business they could take down with them , it would be better to check in with personal passions and make sure they 're exactly where you want to be .   