infoShare , one of Central and Eastern Europe 's biggest tech conferences , takes place May 17 - 19 in Gdansk , Poland . The three - day event provides startups from the region with an opportunity to network with potential investors , future customers and the media . More than 100 VCs and angel investors will be attending along with 120 + speakers from companies like Google , Slack and Netflix , and investment firms such as Inventure , Karma VC and Credo Ventures . Grzegorz Borowski , the CEO of infoShare Foundation explains : " We see both - startups looking for investors and VCs / CVCs searching for new businesses to invest in . They just need to be there at the right place and the right time to find each other . infoShare is the spot where they connect . Last year 80% of startups talked to investors during the event and 60% of the talks continued afterwards . " The exhibition allows startups to present and show off their products and services to an interested crowd of techies and potential customers . In 2016 , more than 200 startups took part in the expo and this year more than 5,000 people are expected to walk through the doors of the event per day . Agnieszka Meller , head of startup relations at infoShare says : " It 's a great chance to show your product to a big international audience and make business relations - either on the venue or during the networking events . " The Startup Contest , co - organised by infoShare and STARTER Incubator , is a chance for startups to pitch to a panel of investors with the chance to win equity - free EUR20,000 . Startups that participate in the contest will also have an opportunity to secure investment while networking with the VCs that are attending the event . The jury for the Startup Contest includes Credo Ventures founding partner , Jan Habermann ; Almaz Capital general partner , Pavel Bogdanov ; and Mayor of Gdansk , Pawel Adamowicz .   Startups in the contest will have access to wide pool of potential clients with more than 3,000 companies represented at infoShare . Before the Startup Contest finals , participants will compete in quarter finals at Starter on May 16 where 20 startups will be chosen for the semi - finals on May 17 with the finals on May 18 . Learn more about the contest and how to apply . Registration closes on March 31 . " Nexbio , last year 's winner , was invited to make a presentation to the President of Poland . Recently , it has scored another win in the Chivas the Venture and will go on to represent Poland in the world finale in Los Angeles " - says Joanna Grandzicka , COO at STARTER . At this year 's edition of infoShare a second contest for startups will take place - Digital Health Hackathon , co - organized by infoShare and their vertical partner INTERIZON ICT Cluster . This contest is dedicated to startups from the digital health industry which focus on one of three areas : mHealth , personalised healthcare and ageing populations . The jackpot amounts to EUR36,000 . You can take part in both contests . Aside of an exciting conference program , infoShare will be hosting several informal networking events and parties which help you grow your network of business partners and friends . Register for infoShare 2017 now . And to get some impressions from last year 's event , check out the video below :  