You hear a lot about the Austin tech ecosystem and startups building products in cybersecurity , digital marketing , and more , but what about the culinary scene ? People have to eat right ? The Cook 's Nook , a new culinary kitchen and incubator has opened in East Austin to help fuel the artisans , mobile food vendors , and caterers who are in the early stages of business . Read about Lisa Guterriez who started her business with no plan The incubator offers a place where owners can cut their teeth in a full - range commercial kitchen in a community of like - minded people and receive business development and networking tools to help them be successful . The Cook 's Nook founder Joi Chevalier worked as an e - commerce product manager and marketing director for Internet venture startups and Fortune 50 companies for 17 years and had a specific focus on creating personalized experiences for online customers based on their history , behavior , and industry trends . She is also a graduate of the Culinary Arts Program at the Auguste Escoffier School of Culinary Arts . Through The Cook 's Nook , Joi is able to blend her tech savvy with a love of culinary arts and provide a place for early - stage chefs and owners to thrive . Inside Cook 's Nook via Joi Chevalier Facebook Through The Cook 's Nook mentorship program and network , startups can connect with chefs , industry experts and professionals in PR , marketing , social media , distribution , and more , to learn about building a culinary business . " Chevalier also has membership levels for food professionals , including writers , photographers and app developers , and people who are just in the idea - generation stage , " according to an article by MyStatesman . Joi Chevalier , Founder The Cooks Nook The incubator does have membership options that allow access to a variety of equipment such as : a large culinary kitchen , dedicated bakery , a members kitchen for client tasting and media opportunities , day and dry storage , refrigerator and freezers , a large receiving bay for all the food deliveries , barbecues , and mobile hookups for food trucks . Read more about startups launching in Austin at Tech . Co Photos courtesy of Joi Chevalier Facebook and The Cook 's Nook