With tutoring centres popping up on every third corner and every second university student now tutoring high school kids ' on the side ' , the tutoring space is certainly a booming , competitive market . Among the ever - increasing number of tutoring offerings is Scooter Tutor , a once - traditional offline tutoring service that has shifted to the online space . Using the platform , parents are able to find qualified tutors across a range of grades and subjects and book them for an at - home tutoring session . The startup 's name and inception emerged from cofounder Cameron Schmidt expanding his " riding around on a scooter " tutoring service into a wider network nearly 10 years ago . According to his cofounder Sam Robertson , however , Schmidt quickly noticed that operating a traditional bricks and mortar business would limit how far and fast it was able to expand . " Really early on he realised that if he wanted to progress from 10 or 20 tutors to anything larger , it would n't really work using any of the solutions in the market . There were issues like dealing with massive amounts of scheduling and payroll , and also with crowds of parents booking in appointments with tutors , " said Robertson . Robertson added that offline solutions posed issues for tutors themselves too , who were forced to network with clients over the phone to book or discuss appointments . Looking to streamline the entire tutoring process , the startup sought to take the best pieces of the traditional tutoring model online . This , according to Robertson , came in the form of offering a service where the tutor would travel to parents , who themselves would know with confidence that they were being served with a high quality educator . Going online would also ease the entire process for tutors , who would be able to " sit back and wait " once they had been accepted as a ' scooter tutor ' and tied to the platform . " It 's really trying to combine the best pieces of all those sides of the market , so it 's beneficial for stakeholders on both sides , " said Robertson . To ensure a high quality of tutor , Robertson explained that the startup " hires " each educator in a casual position , a process which requires all of the usual filtering and background checks involved in traditional employment . " It 's a full job application , so a submission of CV , photo ID , academic transcripts and a Working with Children check . We then have a group video interview , where we go around and talk to each person and see which candidates have a good level of communication . We 'll also check references too when applicable , " explained Robertson . Each hired tutor is able to select the location and range they wish to operate in , as well as the subjects and grades they 're looking to teach . With a focus on grades one to 12 , Robertson said the business has tutors spanning across a substantial lineup of subjects , with Mathematics , Science and English the most in demand . For tutors with knowledge beyond secondary and primary education , however , Robertson said Scooter Tutor supports tertiary and other smaller areas of learning too , such as training on how to use the Microsoft Office Suite . Since the platform does n't offer a search option , but instead drop - down categories , however , finding a tutor to teach an out - of - the - box subject requires a call to the Scooter Tutor helpline , which operates most of the day . " We realised very quickly that we also needed a personal touch , so we looked into how we could combine that with tech so our users would have both options . The helpline was the answer to that , " said Robertson . Robertson added that the helpline can be accessed for other enquires , or for general booking services . Otherwise , all bookings for a tutoring service are made online , as the platform generates a list of tutor profiles for the user to select after a search is made on the home page . Bookings are completed online too , with the startup taking a booking fee for each transaction , with the rest of the funds going to the tutor . At the end of a session , tutors can also be rated out of five stars , with their total score displayed on their profile . Looking at other competitors in the online tutor booking space , Scooter Tutor 's search - online or call - us - for - help model draws similarities to platforms such as Global Education Academy and NSW startup YourTutor , who both also display a tutor 's profile online for selection . To give the startup an edge over its competitors and begin to serve regional communities , Robertson said Scooter Tutor is currently looking at developing its own online video platform to deliver lessons to those outside the startup 's range of operation , which is currently focused on Sydney , Brisbane , and Melbourne . " We really do want to be able to service students in the remote areas . A lot of kids , once they finish school and go to uni , move to one of our major cities , meaning those regional towns lose a lot of their talented students and thus tutors . We 're looking into a video service to aid this issue where our city tutors can deliver a lesson over video chat , " said Robertson . Having raised some seed funding to cover early development , the startup later moved to raising an additional round of approximate $ 700,000 , which Robertson said will help build the Scooter Tutor team and get the platform " exactly where it needs to be " . Robertson added that growing the tutor and client base would also be a key focus for the startup , with the aim of hitting 1,000 total tutors by the end of the year in mind .