Scott Belsky TechCrunch / Flickr The biggest problem with " on - demand " apps , the Uber for XYZ model , is that they make whichever service they are selling a commodity , according to tech entrepreneur and investor Scott Belsky . That 's fine for some services , specifically ones where it does n't really matter who exactly is fulfilling your request . In fact Belsky , who was an early investor in Uber , thinks the on - demand model is perfect for two crucial areas : driving and delivery . But for " relationship - based " services -- tutors , acupuncturists , chefs , fitness instructors , dog walkers , and so on -- Belsky told Business Insider there 's value in finding someone you trust , and can stick with . And he thinks these types of service professionals have been hurt more than they 've been helped by technology . " You do n't need 10,000 hairstylists " on an app , Belsky said , matched to you based on optimal proximity , or user ratings from tons of people you do n't know . You just need a friend you trust , perhaps one with similar taste , to recommend you a good one . Prefer That insight is what has led Belsky , a venture partner at VC firm Benchmark who sold his previous startup Behance to Adobe for a reported $ 150 million , to spend the last year - and - a - half quietly building Prefer . Prefer is an app that uses the recommendations of your social network -- your friends , and friends of friends -- to help you find and book service professionals across any industry . Prefer had its wide launch Monday . " I like to start with a problem , " Belsky said . In this case , his was that the service professionals he 'd had conversations with were dissatisfied with both the old model of doing business and the one provided by new technology . Here 's how Belsky described it : On - demand apps turn their work into a commodity , online marketplaces ( where they can list their services ) de - personalize them by focusing on a " star " rating system , and companies that book everything for them take a huge cut of their revenue . Belsky talked particularly about a massage therapist who he started seeing a few years ago , after traveling back and forth all the time from New York to California took its toll . After a year of seeing her , she told Belsky that the person she used to book clients took 30% . " I almost choked , " Belsky recalled . So Belsky started pitching everyone he knew on the idea of a new way to book service professionals , trying to figure out what stuff might work . He got encouragement to keep at the idea from people like Uber cofounder Garrett Camp , and also eventually found the team that would Prefer , including CEO Julio Vasconcellos , the founder of Peixe Urbano and a former member of the Facebook growth team . But for Belsky , one of the crucial elements in building Prefer was getting feedback not just from techies , but from service professionals of all kinds as well . And it led to some surprises about what they actually wanted out of the platform . " We assumed they would be excited about superior booking and payments , " Belsky said . " As a client , people are annoyed by the back and forth [ of booking appointments ] . But it turns out service professionals did n't mind it as much . So much of their time is under - utilized . They do n't see it as much as a pain point . The thing that got them really excited was getting referrals to their clients ' friends . That 's the Holy Grail for them . " That aspect became the central piece of Prefer . The app uses your phone 's address book -- where you presumably have the numbers of both your friends and the service professionals you use -- to build out a network of who is employing whom . You can hide certain ones if you wish , but the point is to be able to see which people your friends have trusted to do certain kinds of work . You can also add testimonials . " I love this idea of bringing stuff to a small - town mentality , " Belsky said . In a sense , Prefer wants to build you a virtual small town of service providers . Prefer The concept will also , in theory , stop service providers from simply going off - platform once they find a new client . Because of the way Prefer is built , every time someone books a service provider using the app , the system takes that into account when recommending . " When you stop booking me , I will sink down , " Belsky said . The app has its own payments and bookings functions as well . Prefer makes money by taking a fee of every transaction , from 3% to 5% . New clients discovered on prefer platform are in the 5% category , and existing clients are in the 3% one . In addition , Prefer charges a convenience fee for booking . Belsky 's hope is that this business model will prove attractive for service providers , and perhaps even stretch beyond , into the economy at large . " We really like this idea of questioning the notion of a ' firm , ' " Belsky said . For service professionals , the benefits of working with firms are the automatic billing process and getting new clients , according to Belsky . The smartphone could replace that for some . " In this modern day where everyone has this small town in your pocket ... why do professionals need to work for firms or salons ? " Business Insider 's US Editor - in - Chief Alyson Shontell recently interviewed Belsky for her podcast , " Success ! How I Did It . " Listen here .