Your business depends on its IT infrastructure to exist , even if you 're in a more traditional industry . You 're relying on computers , mobile devices , spreadsheets , documents , and mass stores of data to keep your business running effectively . Have you thought about what might happen if everything was suddenly wiped out ? What if a fire took out the majority of your physical storage devices ? What if a cyber criminal was able to seize control of your servers and hold them hostage ? As many as 50 percent of small businesses have been breached in some way within the last 12 months , yet an astounding 82 percent of business owners believe they would never be the target of an attack or breach because they do n't have anything worth stealing . It may be true that a small business does n't have access to the capital or resources that a large business does , but cyber criminals are opportunists -- they look for easy work , not for big paydays . With both cyber crimes and natural disasters having the potential to cripple most businesses , why do n't more business owners have a disaster recovery plan ? These are some of the biggest reasons why disaster recovery plans are so rare : 1 . Not understanding how security and data recovery work . First , business owners may not understand the nature of the threats that are out there . They may not think about physical disasters , or they may believe threats like hackers and ransomware are few and far between . They may also fail to understand how easy it is to back up their data or institute basic security policies , with most modern solutions happening automatically and routinely . This lack of understanding of disaster recovery solutions keeps them from moving forward with any solution . 2 . Believing they are n't targets . Like we mentioned in the introduction , many business owners believe they would never be the target of a hacker . Unfortunately , this simply is n't the case . In fact , 43 percent of all cyber attacks specifically target small businesses -- and that does n't account for the simultaneous threat of natural disasters . Believing it 's not important is the single most prohibitive mindset in cyber security . 3 . De - prioritisation . It may be that an entrepreneur knows it 's important to have a data recovery plan and increased protection , but they 've de - prioritized these protocols in favor of other work . Data protection does n't seem important until it 's been compromised -- but by that point , it 's often too late . It 's like thinking about health insurance after you 've already had a medical emergency . If you want to protect yourself , you need to have a plan early , and be as proactive as possible . It may not take priority over any emergencies that your business is currently struggling with , but it needs to be high on your list . Do n't keep moving it down indefinitely . Schedule a day and a time to get it done . 4 . Not knowing where to start . Some business owners may not know where to start , since " data protection " and " disaster recovery " are such broad topics . A good first step is to find a reliable provider of data backup and recovery , two services that will protect your digital information in case it 's ever held hostage or physically destroyed . From there , you can gradually ratchet up your security protocols and enlist other services to complement your core structures . 5 . Decision procrastination . Of course , some entrepreneurs are simply procrastinating the decision because they do n't want to make it . They may feel insecure in their understanding or may not want to pay for any additional services , but in any case , they 're taking their sweet time moving forward on any new policies . All of these motivations are seemingly legitimate on the surface -- it 's perfectly understandable that an entrepreneur who does n't feel threatened would n't want to improve security -- but believing you 're a good driver does n't make you less likely to have an accident . Threats to your data , your assets , and your entire technological network are very real , and unless you have a proactive plan to mitigate or deal with them , you could suffer the consequences . Put together a disaster recovery plan ; think of it as an insurance policy to protect your business 's interests . You 'll be glad you did . Folly + lack of conscience = disasters .    kabardins.com Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Entrepreneurship