Sweden has emerged as a fintech powerhouse in Europe . In 2016 alone , Sweden - based fintech companies closed 35 rounds of funding , according to Breakit . This brings Sweden 's haul to 40 percent of all funding rounds in Europe for the past five years . Sweden now has the highest number of fintech investments per capital . As a country , Sweden has become the world 's best model for a cashless society . Only less than 2 percent of payment transactions in the country were made using cash in 2015 . Many of its banks do n't even allow cash transactions anymore . As such , cashless payments have become a core vertical to the rise of Sweden 's fintech scene . For peer - to - peer fund transfers , people use Swish which is an app from the collaboration between Sweden 's major banks . For payments to businesses , payment solutions like iZettle , Klarna , and Trustly are the most popular . Interestingly , all of these companies are homegrown ventures but they are also finding success across border as more countries strive towards cashless . iZettle and Klarna already reached unicorn status while Trustly is poised to do the same after a strong 2016 where the company performed EUR3.2 billion in transactions . Other fintech segments are also gaining ground . Virtual banking app Tink secured $ 10 million in funding last year while crowd lending service Kameo secured $ 1.2 million in funding last year . Non - fintech unicorn companies also came from Sweden , such as music service Spotify , game developer King ( makers of Candy Crush ) , and Skype . As such , Sweden is considered to be the second - largest unicorn breeding ground in the world .   Swedish fintech companies also credit their talent pool for their continued success . In a recent Ernst and Young event , officers from several Stockholm - based tech companies shared their thoughts on the challenges in human resources that their companies face . Ulrica Falkenberg , chief human resources officer of Trustly , said , " I think one important thing that we have managed to do is find the truly best talents for those early recruitments . Good people know good people , and want to work with other competent people . A large portion of our new hires come through internal referrals . " Read about startups emerging in London There 's plenty of local talent to tap into as the population boasts of a highly educated population and 40 percent of Stockholm 's inhabitants have at least a three - year post - secondary education . Johan Attby , CEO of Fishbrain , banks on the loyalty of Swedish tech professionals . " In Stockholm it 's competitive , but if you manage to hire someone , they will stick with you , " he said . Still , Swedish companies must also be able to look outward to continue their growth . Hiring in tech has become quite competitive these days especially in Europe . The EU allows for professionals to easily relocate to any of the major tech hubs located in its member countries . As such , major tech hubs are all vying to attract the best tech talent especially in light of Brexit . Aside from Stockholm , Berlin , Amsterdam , and Dublin are all keen on attracting companies and talent to relocate . Berlin and Amsterdam are highly cosmopolitan and many professionals find it easy to adjust to life once they relocate . Berlin even boasts of lower costs of living especially when compared to New York or London . Not to be left out , Stockholm is a worthy rival to Berlin and Amsterdam . Sweden was named the best country to raise a family , companies offer flexible work hours , there 's also strong emphasis to gender equality and English is also widely spoken . These perks make Sweden a sensible destination for tech professionals looking for a change in environment . Further growth of fintech has come from a convergence of entrepreneurs , the government , and talent . Thankfully , stakeholders are creating an ecosystem that 's nurtures innovation . The Stockholm Fintech Hub , which is a collaboration among KPMG , Partner BLC Avisors , Invest Stockholm , and NFT Ventures , launched earlier this year . The hub offers coworking spaces , a conference center , and educational programs to support fintech ventures . Fintech in Europe is expected to blow up by 2018 as the Revised Payment Services Directive ( PSD2 ) takes effect . This is expected to change the way banking is done in a major way . " Over the next five years , I think the lines around fintech are going to become increasingly blurred . Customers wo n't differentiate between technology companies , banks or non - banks . We will see a more diverse market and more collaboration between product developers at small companies and tech teams in global banks as they create and distribute new products , " said Oscar Berglund , CEO of Trustly . This only offers bigger opportunities for fintech companies and Sweden is looking to lead the way . Read more about startups around the world at Tech . Co