With no business plan or working capital , it can be hard to build a business . However a driven work ethic , unending passion , and some family recipes , Lisa and Vincente Gutierrez opened their food truck business , Dos Hermanos Taco Truck , and rolled right into entrepreneurship . The couple met at a restaurant where Lisa was the manager and Vincente was the line cook . Together they had dreams of owning their own business and creating jobs . On a whim , they decided to buy a food truck from their friend , borrowed pots and pans from friends and family , and launched their food truck with recipes from Vincente 's family from Oaxaca , Mexico . " In 2012 , we just opened the business and the community supported us and loved the food , " Lisa said .   As their business began to grow , Lisa needed to build her entrepreneurial skills and find ways to expand the business . Lisa turned to the Columbus Economic & Community Development Institute ( ECDI ) . The non - profit economic development organization helped provide Lisa with a place to park their truck , access to a prep kitchen , and offered affordable classes to help market the business . " I had no idea about mobile food vending , how to write a business plan , social media or how to make a logo , " Lisa said . " They had a women 's business center attached and I got my business hat on ! " In 2015 , Lisa was accepted to the Entrepreneur Exchange Program , funded by the SBA ScaleUp America initiative . This nine - month program is a community - focused initiative where business firms can grow by leveraging , networking , and complimenting the existing resources and expertise in their areas .   Through the program , Lisa was able to leverage her networking opportunities to expand their business that included two food carts and became vendors at sport stadiums and local hot spots . " The ECDI made our business credible . We were noticed by the North Market and they wanted to bring in authentic Mexican cuisine - we were one of three businesses chosen . [ Most importantly , ] I knew having that restaurant in the market would break the cycle of not being able to create jobs , " Lisa said . Through heavy social media marketing , word - of - mouth and expansion , Dos Hermanos became a recognizable brand . " We are in the Ohio State stadium serving tacos on game days for football and soccer , and serve as a pop - up restaurant at JPMorgan Chase 's McCoy Center . Being in front of these large crowds and companies make us credible , " Lisa said .   When it was finally time to get a loan to expand her business , the network she 'd developed in the community was helpful . " Just by talking to the small business bankers and connecting with Chase it had really helped our small business grow , " Lisa said . While their dreams of owning a business and creating jobs are coming to fruition , there are always unexpected twists and turns as an entrepreneur . " I was surprised by how much it took to run the business . I was the cashier and taking the orders and I could n't foresee myself not being on the truck however , as we stated to grow I could n't be everywhere . I needed to let go and put people in different roles , and they were amazing . The strength in our staff and empowering them has allowed us to continue to grow the business . [ Each day I say ] wow ! I 'm surrounded by a bunch of talented people , " Lisa said . This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series . Delicious photos courtesy of Dos Hermanos   Read more about the value of networking here on Tech . Co