If you 're an employee at a startup , you must dream of the day when you 'll finally get to build your own . You will be able to see the difference between owning a business and working for one already . For most people with big ambitions this can be too much to handle . They decide to finally go out and chase their dream , but they realize it 's not as easy as it seems . Luckily there are some things you can do to prepare for tough times . If you 're one of those employees looking to break free , we 'll talk about a few things you should know . When Jack Dorsey was trying to build Twitter he came to an important realization . When you 're trying to build a great startup , there needs to be a positive culture , which means getting rid of all the negativity . This meant getting rid of employees he considered superstars because they were too negative . You 'll have to hire and fire people , so remember skills come second to an environment everyone will love . We all like to think we 're working for the good of the company , but employees will always look out for number one . When something goes right they 'll take credit for it , but when it goes wrong they 'll blame someone else . Once you 're in charge of your own startup it does n't really matter who is at fault , because you 're ultimately responsible for everyone . When it goes well you have to accept you could n't have done it on your own . Everyone assumes you can build a huge business without an education because Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates dropped out of college . You do n't necessarily need a college degree , but educating yourself every day is almost essential . Get NetSuite certifications if you want a much deeper understanding of your new business . Spend hours perfecting your coding even if you 're already great . Do n't forget all top startup founders read lots of books . Lots of startups in your local area will become successful long before you ever will . It 's something you think about as an employee , but it does n't really affect you on a personal level because you 're not tied to anything . A large majority of founders seem to care far too much about other companies . Unless they 're competing for your customers it does n't matter how they 're progressing . Focusing on them will only take away from your venture . Do you know that money your startup keeps depositing into your bank account every month ? Once you start your own startup it will disappear and you 'll need to replace it . This will have to be done through raising money . Some companies will be profitable from the start , but in reality you 'll have to raise something . If you want to scale up quickly you 'll need to raise lots , so it 's something you will need to get very good at . What is the worst that can happen if you do n't succeed ? You 'll have to find another job , which should be easy if you 're skilled . If you do become one of the lucky founders all of your dreams will come true and life will never be the same again .