CheckRecipient , a machine learning startup that aims to end the problem of misaddressed emails once and for all , has raised $ 2.7 million in a round co - led by Accel and LocalGlobe , with the participation of Winton Ventures , Amadeus Capital Partners and Crane . The young company will use the fresh capital to double its size to 24 people , with a focus on hiring business development and engineering expertise . Founded in 2013 by three engineering graduates from Imperial College , the London - based startup CheckRecipient has developed an email security platform that uses machine learning to make sure sensitive or confidential data can not be sent to the wrong individual . CheckRecipient scans historical email data to understand conventional usage patterns and behaviours in companies ' email systems . Using machine learning allows CheckRecipient to spot anomalies and give users a chance to correct problems before sending . Unlike existing rule - based systems or encryption platforms , the system requires no administration or end user behaviour change . Following rapid take - up in the City of London , CheckRecipient is working with multinational companies across the legal , healthcare and financial services worlds , with a view to launching in the US shortly . It is also developing CheckRecipient 's technology to address additional security concerns that organisations have identified with email and documents . While there are daily scare stories about cyber attacks and the potential cost to business , basic human error and misaddressed emails are a much greater problem for companies in the financial services , legal and healthcare sectors . According to the Information Commissioner 's Office , misaddressed emails were the leading digital security incident reported in 2016 . A wrongly addressed email can lead to a loss of clients , revenue , and serious reputational damage . From May 2018 , the new EU General Data Protection Regulation will impose a mandatory requirement for organisations to report data breaches involving personal data to the Information Commissioner 's Office ( ICO ) , and fines for the worst breaches will increase to up to 4% of an organisation 's global turnover . While there are lots of products on the market designed to make email more secure , they all require a high degree of behaviour change from end users or significant administration from IT teams , meaning that their effectiveness is diminished . Tim Sadler , CEO of CheckRecipient , said : " It 's human nature to fear the shark when we go swimming , but it 's crossing the road , an activity we do daily almost without thinking , that is more likely to kill you . There 's currently an obsession with the detection of malicious insider and external attackers , but the most common data security incidents reported to the ICO are all linked to human error . CheckRecipient allows organisations to demonstrate diligence to both clients and regulators by managing the risk of misaddressed emails . It also helps firms to protect staff from mistakes , which could cost them their career , in highly regulated , reputation driven sectors such as law and finance . " Luciana Lixandru , partner , Accel , commented : " CheckRecipient is developing an extremely effective product that resolves one of the corporate world 's biggest problems . As the technology is developed , there are a number of additional possible applications which will turn CheckRecipient into a gold - standard email and data security product . " CheckRecipient is already used by blue - chip names in London and in legal circles including a FTSE 100 financial services company , the world 's largest publicly traded hedge fund , Man Group , and Europe 's largest hedge fund , Winton Capital . Law firms who are using the product include Penningtons Manches and Travers Smith as well as some UK Top 10 and Magic Circle firms .