ASX - listed Xped , an Adelaide company working in the Internet of Things space , has announced its acquisition of local machine learning and AI startup Jemsoft for $ 200,000 in cash and 50 million Xped shares , which are currently at 1.4 cents . Founded in 2013 by Jordan Green and Emily Rich , Jemsoft 's work originally centered around a security solution for the retail industry that would have cameras analyse people as they approach a store in order to determine whether they are a genuine customer or may pose a threat , with the idea having come from Green 's experience being held at gunpoint during a robbery . This technology developed into Jemsoft 's Monocular API platform , which has over the years been used by companies in varying industries ; according to Xped , the startup has completed projects for clients including global conglomerates , SMEs , government , and other startups . Green said , " Xped 's success doing deals with companies in the US and China , specifically with device manufacturers and the successes they 've had in gaining adoption of their technology at the chip and module levels , showed us they 're the right partner to fulfil our vision of providing the most usable and accessible cognitive computing products and services in the world . " With Rich and Green to stay on with the company , as part of the deal Xped will acquire Monocular , Jemsoft 's intellectual property , and the 51 percent share the startup has in Media Intelligence Co ( MIC ) , a joint venture created through a partnership with academic Dr Karen Nelson - Field last year . MIC , which provides media companies and brands media measurement solutions and real - time insights , has a cornerstone research contract in place with Think TV Australia , which generates $ 500,000 a year in licensing fees . " This acquisition adds a substantial piece in Xped 's larger vision of building a complete end - to - end Internet of Things platform , " Xped said in a statement . " By leveraging Jemsoft 's advanced software and cloud - based expertise , Xped will implement leading artificial intelligence and consumer friendly technologies into its platform . " The acquisition comes at an interesting time , with The Advertiser reporting that Nelson - Field is taking Jemsoft to Federal Court , applying to wind up the company due to a debt of over $ 67,000 from consultancy work she did in early 2016 . With a hearing scheduled for May 24 , Nelson - Field told The Advertiser she had had no notice of the acquisition . Xped earlier this year secured deals with Chinese electronics manufacturer Lenze Technology , which will see its software integrated into more than 200 million devices , and with Solekai Systems , with its tech to be integrated into the platforms of Solekai 's existing customers , such as energy management systems , media players , and set top boxes .