Employees are the lifeblood of your company , and if you are n't showing them that you care , you 're going to have a bad time . While you might think raises and promotions are the only solution to this pressing problem , you 're wrong . There are plenty of ways to improve employee motivation without dipping into your wallet or assigning meaningless titles . We asked four entrepreneurs what one thing they do to motivate their employees without raises or promotions . Check out what they had to say and get your employees working harder than ever : This one 's easy - give them ownership of their job . Give them a reason beyond a paycheck why they should care about the work they do . And if they are n't passionate about their job , talk to them and find out how you can help them be passionate . - Steven Buchwald of Buchwald & Associates As an SEO agency working in high - pressure situations in an ever - changing environment , it 's hard to help employees balance work and life . Employee satisfaction and happiness directly correlates with motivation and work quality . My team and I take ski / snowboard trips together , go on a whitewater rafting trip in the summer , and on occasion , I take them out for drinks after work . - Chris Rodgers of Colorado SEO Pros This past summer we had the most incredible team outing day at The Crescent Beach Club in Bayville , New York . The entire day was planned for the team from the limo ride out to Long Island , to beach volleyball and kayaking . It was a bonding experience for our agency and everyone still talks about it as the most fun day of the year . We will be doing it again this summer ! - Steph Jill Cartin of Socialfly NY Treat your employee to a dinner for two at one of their favorite restaurants or a place you know they have wanted to try . If they are a sports fan , concert goer or lover of classical art performances , you can put a cherry on top by throwing in a couple tickets to that as well . - Chuck Pettid of RainmakeMe FounderSociety is an invitation - only organization comprised of ambitious startup founders and business owners . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .