The latest report to detail Australia 's startup performance has been released , with the 2017 global startup ecosystem ranking from Startup Genome seeing Sydney slip one place down the list to 17 . The list , based on a global survey conducted last year that received over 10,000 responses , along with publicly available data around startup valuations and investment , saw Silicon Valley , New York , and London take the top three rankings , while Beijing and Shanghai , analysed for the first time , came in at number 4 and 8 respectively . Though it has fallen , Sydney can take heart in the fact that this year 's report put it up against more competition ; the 2016 edition assessed 55 ecosystems across 28 countries , with Japan , South Korea , and China the new entrants , compared to just 40 ecosystems across 25 countries in 2015 . The ecosystems are assessed according to a variety of factors including performance , looking at startup output , exits , valuations , early - stage success , growth - stage success , and overall ecosystem value ; ' startup experience ' , or how well an ecosystem recycles experience into future startup performance ; resource attraction ; access to and quality of talent ; market reach ; and global connectedness . The report found Sydney has an estimated 1,300 - 2,100 active tech startups , with an overall ecosystem value of US$ 6.6 billion ; the global average is US$ 16 billion . Highlighted as a positive is the growing network of coworking spaces , accelerators , and incubators emerging to help boost growth and show Sydney is " on the path of establishing a globally competitive framework " . The report believes the proof of this is in the exits , singling out big money events including Atlassian 's IPO , AfterPay 's listing , and the acquisition of Menulog by Just Eat for US$ 687 million , while significant funding rounds , such as Canva 's last US$ 15 million round at a valuation of $ 345 million and Tyro's$100 million raise , were also identified . However , though Sydney sits in the top 10 Exit Factor ranking , its Startup Output and valuation rankings are significantly lower , with the report suggesting the city may be benefiting from a few outliers . Also highlighted is the fact that Sydney is one of the most globally connected startup ecosystems , however its market reach is held down by its relative lack of foreign customers , this in turn contributing to a poor ranking in terms of financial performance . Rankings for talent are also low , however the report finds Sydney has one of the highest percentages of women founders in the world with 22 percent , while the global average sits at 16 percent . The city also boasts a high number of immigrant founders , with 31 percent , compared to a global average of 19 percent . Alex McCauley , CEO of StartupAUS , said the report reflects Australia 's growth over the last 18 months but more must be done to keep up with the competition . " Sydney still ranks as one of the best startup ecosystems in the world , and there are only nine countries ahead of Australia on this list . Yet despite the clear progress we 've made , the rankings remain largely static , " he said . " There 's a very clear message here : this is a hugely competitive , global race . We need to run fast to even maintain our position . That 's why it 's so critical that we do n't lose focus . " His thoughts were echoed by TechSydney CEO Dean McEvoy , who agreed that Sydney is doing well but needs more to push further ahead . " It 's a critical time for our industry . This report proves Sydney has what it takes to be in the Top 10 ecosystems in the world . We just need to accelerate our growth and the size of the industry with a central hub for startups , " he said . " If we provide space for the density our industry needs to grow and we all come together - in spirit and in one location - we will be an unstoppable force and create the next generation of jobs for Australia . " The development of a central hub has long been an issue for the Sydney startup community , with hope renewed recently after the NSW government announced it would look to develop a 15,000 square metre startup hub in the CBD . Looking beyond Sydney , analysed as part of a cluster of cities in Asia Pacific , the report found Melbourne is " itching to crack the top 20 " , however it " is n't quite there and faces stiff competition " ; though it almost scored a top 20 ranking in terms of its startup output , its valuation and exit numbers lag too far behind . Despite the competition , the report highlights Melbourne 's strong early stage funding rates , strong global connectedness , and high quality engineering . Also analysed was New Zealand , where the report found the talent and funding factors are above average , though overall performance is " significantly below average " . However , solid funding and talent should lead to better performance over time . A strong indicator of future potential is the fact that New Zealand startups have the highest percentage of foreign customers outside their continent at 25 percent , highlighting a strong ability to go global . New Zealand also ranks fifth in terms of startups finding positive corporate interest and involvement , with a rate of 65 percent compared to the global average of 51 percent . The full top 20 ranking :