In a surprise move which shook Baidu 's stock , Andrew Ng , Baidu 's Chief Scientist and partner with Baidu 's founder Robin Li Yanhong in expanding Baidu 's AI activities into machine learning , driverless vehicles , and to power AI usage in advertising , maps , takeout delivery , and voice - activated search , resigned . Baidu 's AI group has expanded to over 1,300 people in China and Silicon Valley . Ng , who has been with Baidu since 2014 oversaw most of that change . Some see Ng 's departure as a setback to their AI efforts , hence the shakeup in the stock price . Others comment that the timing was right both for him and for Baidu . Ng blogged about his resignation that : I will be resigning from Baidu , where I have been leading the company 's AI Group . Baidu 's AI is incredibly strong , and the team is stacked up and down with talent ; I am confident AI at Baidu will continue to flourish . After Baidu , I am excited to continue working toward the AI transformation of our society and the use of AI to make life better for everyone . In January , Lu Qi , an AI exec from Microsoft , was hired as COO which included oversight of Baidu 's AI research and business . Today he announced Ng 's replacement as head of AI Group to be Wang Haifeng , also an AI expert , and previous president of the Association for Computational Linguistics , an international scientific and professional society for people working on computational problems involving human language . One analyst , Kitty Fok , from IDC , a provider of research , consulting and events for the data and telecom industries , said of Ng 's choice to leave Baidu : He wants to start his own company . Ng saw a golden opportunity to become an entrepreneur . It 's perfect timing for him because he has the expertise , he 's well known in his field , and interest is high for innovative tech start - ups . I would n't be surprised if Baidu , Tencent Holdings and Alibaba Group would be interested in investing in Ng 's potential new AI enterprise . < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >