Following its first foray up north through its support of the Baryamal program last year , corporate accelerator Slingshot is set to officially establish itself in Queensland , gaining the state government 's support to launch programs in Brisbane and Cairns . Working in partnership with theSPACE in Cairns , Slingshot will accelerate local tourism , hospitality , and entertainment startups , looking to in turn boost Cairns as both a business and tourism destination . Slingshot had expressed its desire to expand into Queensland following its acquisition of Melbourne - based accelerator AngelCube last year . Helping the organisation make the move now is the Queensland government and its $ 9 million Advance Queensland Industry Accelerators Program , with Slingshot joining the likes of Unearthed and BlueChilli as a funding recipient . Karen Lawson , CEO of Slingshot , said the industry focus for the Brisbane program will be determined by interest from potential corporate partners , but tourism stood out for Cairns . " If you look at the state and where the money is and where its economy is being formed , one of the top three sectors is tourism . For us it was a really natural standout to say , if we are going to affect this state in any meaningful way , it will be to look at how we drive new , disruptive ideas and businesses into that vertical , " she said . Troy Haines , CEO of theSPACE Australasia , said , " The tourism industry in Cairns has been booming in recent years and this accelerator program is a fantastic initiative to help develop the next generation of tourism startups in the region , " he said . Already an $ 11 billion industry , the state 's tourism industry is gearing up for a particularly busy time , with the Commonwealth Games kicking off on the Gold Coast next year . Slingshot is currently looking for corporate partners for the accelerator program . The state government is also looking to provide a boost for Far North Queensland through a $ 3.2 million funding program aimed at encouraging researchers and startups to take on the challenge of improving the water quality of the Great Barrier Reef . Dr Steven Miles , Minister for the Great Barrier Reef , is calling for innovators in water treatment system technology , agricultural management practices , and ecosystem repair to tackle the problem . " We 're looking for innovative approaches and technologies that will deliver real improvements for the reef , " he said . A total of $ 2.25 million in funding , which must be matched , will go towards running trials in reef catchments of water technologies that are either new or have been used successfully in other settings . A further $ 900,000 will be put towards supporting the development and trialling of innovative farming practices , new tools and technologies , and novel ecosystem repair models . The program is part of the $ 9 million Reef Innovation Fund , itself part of a four year , $ 90 million investment into reef water quality .