Entrepreneur is on the ground at this year 's Consumer Electronics Show . Check back for highlights from the event as well as insights from thought leaders and innovators .   I ca n't remember the last time I sat down at my desk and actually typed something on my laptop . These days , most of my work is done on my smartphone or tablet . Productivity apps allow me to work faster and more efficiently while being 100 percent mobile . I 'm getting more work done than ever before , with no downtime between meetings . More and more executives are mobile - first these days . I may be an early adopter of the trend , but this is the way business is moving . In fact , with more than 2.5 billion smartphones in the world today , nothing really matters right now but the smartphone . When I head down to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas , I 'll be spending the majority of my time in meetings at the Aria and Cosmopolitan with others in the ad tech and media industries . I 'll also be visiting the show floor as much as I can . While I 'm there , there are a few trends I 'm expecting to see , and another handful I 'm hoping to see . They 're all centered around mobile , which I suspect will be dominating the event : AR is connected closely to mobile , as we saw in 2016 when Pokemon Go launched . The first true mobile AR game was a mere taste of the ways in which AR allows us to bridge the digital and analog worlds using the cameras on our smartphones . While short - lived , it also showed us how AR can truly captivate the public . I 'd like to see more Pokemon Go - like experiments . Snapchat lenses and filters are another great example of how augmented reality is becoming mainstream . Our phones become a throughput for AR , and I hope to see more innovations like this , as well . Given the rumors about AR on the iPhone 7 and that Facebook has already dipped its toe in the pool , I think there may be some very interesting entries into the space at CES this year . In digital media , it 's a cliche we hear all the time : " Content is King , Distribution is Queen . " This is truer in the VR space than anywhere else in the industry . Today , both the king and the queen seem to be finding their way to the throne : there is more great VR content entering the market than ever , and distribution is improving daily . VR headsets can be found for less than $ 20 , and coupled with - you guessed it - your smartphone - they are making high quality VR very accessible . VR can also be experienced in a mobile browser , lowering the barriers to distribution and opening up huge opportunities for experimentation . Startups are emerging to take advantage of the opportunities . Media companies are experimenting with VR within their apps . While it 's difficult for investors to bet on emerging trends like VR , with so much more access to this amazing technology , now may be the time . There should be some very cool stuff happening in VR at the show this year . Computers can automate much of the processes and tasks humans can do . This extends to content and advertising optimization -- and also to the physical world via the Internet of Things ( IoT ) . This trend toward connected devices will drive AI to become more consumer - friendly and helpful . We 're already seeing this with products like Echo and Google Home . Siri was the first AI - based mobile personal assistant . She 's been mobile - first from day one , and she 's only getting smarter . I also expect to see AI - driven chatbots , based on smartphone messaging platforms , growing in popularity . These messaging bots will be used by media companies to create more relevant content experiences in a more intimate way with smartphone audiences . Publishers will have access to more , and higher quality , data on what 's resonating to drive better experiences with videos and other content formats . At CES , I expect to see multiple tech startups aiming to help media companies and publishers capitalize on this trend . I think 360 video and imagery will be prominent at CES . We 're already seeing more and more demand from advertisers for this technology , and this could be its breakthrough year . A close cousin to VR , this technology is much more accessible - you do n't need a headset . Through connecting with existing sensors on the smartphone , it bridges the digital and analog world in a very real way . With Facebook is already onboard as a point of distribution for this rich experience , I think this will be the year ad tech companies and publishers pick up on it . I 'm excited to see these new and emerging technologies on display in Las Vegas at CES . I 'm equally excited to see launches of new handsets that are optimized for these innovations . But most of all , I 'm looking forward to spending time meeting with thought leaders from the media and ad tech world , discussing how we can make these technologies work and improve daily life in a mobile - first world . Eric Franchi is co - founder of Undertone where he leads industry relations and manages the company 's most strategic partnerships . He also serves as an angel investor and advisor for multiple companies .