Promoting a startup on Facebook is one of the most cost - effective ways to quickly gain exposure . After setting up a business page , you 'll have instant access to campaign tools that can help you promote your content , engage your audience , and build a following from Facebook 's massive user base . According to official statistics , there were about 1.23 billion daily active users on Facebook back in December of 2016 . To leverage this huge number , read up on the top seven tips that will help you promote your startup successfully on Facebook . Although Facebook now has online store capabilities , most users are still there for one purpose - to socialize . That said , focus on building closer connections with your audience by responding on a timely manner and being helpful whenever someone makes an enquiry . You can use a tool like Sprout Social to stay ahead of conversations and brand mentions across multiple networks - not just Facebook . To push your business page to a target audience , be sure to set your preferred page audience right after creating your business page . To do this , go to Settings > Preferred Page Audience and specify information such as target locations , interests , languages , and gender . Do n't worry about being too specific - other users can still find your page even though they do n't fit your preferred page audience . A lot of brands make the mistake of simply spewing out content on Facebook whenever it gets published on the company blog . If you want to maximize the visibility of your post , be sure to post when your target users are most active . This will vary depending on your target demographic , but based on multiple case studies , the best posting schedule is generally around 1 - 4pm . Facebook now allows business pages to add CTA buttons that trigger a variety of actions - from downloading an app to making a purchase . This is useful if you want to convert your visitors into leads or paying customers . All you have to do is to click the blue + Add Button from your business page , select your goal , and choose a specific action . You will then have to input the URL to the external landing page or download link . Keywords will always matter when it comes to the visibility of your content - be it in SEO , advertising , or social media . On Facebook , targeting the right keywords directly affects the discover - ability of your page via the search function . That said , see to it that you use keywords on key locations on your page , specifically the " about " section . It 's also important to incorporate your keywords in every content - from photo descriptions to video captions and subtitles . Simply put - great content alone is no longer enough if you want your brand to get noticed . You need to leverage Facebook Ads to steadily grow your followers and compete with countless other brands in the same niche . Fortunately , a Facebook Ads campaign is highly flexible , so you can start small and simply increase your budget as your startup gains ground . Last but not least , social media users flock to brands they can trust , and you ca n't have trust without familiarity . To foster your audience 's familiarity with your brand , the first thing you need is a consistent brand voice that 's instilled with your company culture . For this , you just need to let the collective personalities of your team shine through every status update , photo , or comment you share with your audience .