I was at an event recently that screened a 1956 short film -- Key to the Future -- in which GM envisions what self - driving cars would look like in 1976 . The footage -- with a uniformed guy in a control tower directing a singing family along a highway for autonomous vehicles -- inspired chuckles from the audience . One aspect of the video that did become a reality is the interstate highway system , a major milestone in vehicle transportation that better connected rural communities and big cities and cut travel time . But they also displaced entire urban neighborhoods when they were constructed and divided others once the work was complete . They enabled mass migration to suburbs for the more affluent , who could now easily commute by car into cities for work . But this sapped the tax base of large cities , setting up prolonged urban decay during the 60s and 70s . Sixty years since the GM film , we 're now are on the cusp of another major transformation in transportation with self - driving cars , and some are concerned they will have similarly negative unintended consequences .   Experts think we 'll first see fully autonomous cars in urban areas , with city dwellers and commuters alike buzzing around in autonomous pods , freed from the drudgery of driving . Ford , for example , has promised to mass produce fully self - driving cars for ride - sharing purposes by 2021 . Uber is already testing autonomous vehicles , while the self - driving tech start - up Nutonomy currently offers robo - taxis rides in Singapore . Urban designer Peter Calthorpe , one of the top minds who spoke at the TED conference earlier this week , has a more pessimistic view of autonomous vehicles and how they could affect cities . While autonomous vehicles offer myriad benefits , such as increased mobility for the disabled and others , Calthorpe is concerned about further isolating people already detached by compulsive interaction with portable devices . " Putting people in their private bubbles , whether they have a steering wheel or not , is the wrong direction , " Calthorpe told TED head curator Chris Anderson following his talk . He worries about people using self - driving cars as solitary electronic chauffeurs or butlers that run errands and do n't require their owners to ever leave the home . Calthorpe 's other concern is that autonomous vehicle " will revitalize sprawl " as society becomes more urbanized . Others are also questioning whether self - driving cars could lead to longer commutes if people can be productive while in the car , making traffic worse in urban areas . Hesham Rakha , an engineering professor at Virginia Tech who studies traffic flow , told NPR in February that it 's difficult to predict whether self - driving cars will improve traffic congestion . " I do n't know the answer , " he admitted . " If the road is less congested , more people are going to be attracted to that road , and so basically it will become congested because it 's supply and demand . " And all those utopian visions of driverless cars making traffic and accidents a thing of the past could look just like as silly as GM 's Key to the Future film from 60 years ago .