As you may have noticed on your Facebook feed , video is everywhere , and brands are taking notice . According to data from eMarketer , digital video ad spending in the US is predicted to reach US$ 28 billion by 2020 , up from $ 9.9 billion in 2016 .   Looking to take this video spend and create better content is Sydney startup SnackableTV , a free streaming platform , or network , for high quality short form content aimed at millennial viewers .   Launched in December , the idea for the platform was born was born out of Kontented , a content production agency run by Kate Edwards .   Edwards believes the internet is " littered " with either poor - quality short form content - including user - generated content , which Edwards calls " digital litter " - targeting young people , or expensive longform content targeting the traditional television or film consumption markets , with nothing in between .   Through SnackableTV , Edwards wants to fill that gap , giving audiences aged between 13 and 30 access to high quality short form content .   The idea first came from Edwards ' boredom and her frustration around the lack of ROI Kontented could provide to its commercial partners in the content space .   " They literally had to rely on a wing and a prayer that their social audiences would pick up the content , but it was often just buried in YouTube . This meant they were spending thousands of dollars on really good quality content , but no one was seeing it , " she said .   While on maternity leave , Edwards decided something had to change . " [ I thought ] , if I do n't change the way we do things , we will just end up in the same horrible agency cycle that kills all client / agency relationships , and we are n't even an agency . We 're the creators ; we want to make a great product and have a highly engaged audience to receive the content , " she said . Edwards told her husband her plans one night when he came home from work , telling him that if they did n't do it she would be quitting the business - and so SnackableTV was born .   " We focus on episodic content to ensure that the target consumer can still ' binge watch ' , which we know is the key consumption behaviour for young people , " Edwards said . SnackableTV is looking to commission and license content for its audience across the broad banners of culture , music , gaming , film , podcasts , and style .   So far , Edwards said there are over 350 episodes of content on the platform created by Kontented and other producers , with these amassing over six million views since it launched in December .   To fund the production of this content , the platform will not use " ads , spam , and retargeting " , which Edwards calls   " the shoes following you around the internet effect " , but rather look to help brands produce native content . Getting brands on board should n't be too hard , with Kontented having produced content for the likes of Coca Cola , ANZ , and McCafe .   Edwards pointed Netflix out as SnackableTV 's closest competitor , but admitted the platform likely shares an audience too with other platforms such as YouTube Red and video networks such as Buzzfeed 's .   " For us though , our most relevant point of difference is that we do n't have an opinion . SnackableTV is a platform agnostic of political opinion , gossip , and does n't stand for anything . We are simply technology enabling storytellers a platform to find and audience , and for an audience we are a platform where you can find great content , " Edwards explained .   " Unlike Buzzfeed or Vice or even social media , we 're not going to rant and rave . Our shows might , but we as a brand stand completely agnostically of all that fodder and clickbait . We just want to deliver a seamless experience and awesome stories . " The fact some content will be powered by brands also raises the question of whether SnackableTV can be truly " agnostic " , while bringing viewers to the network and ensuring content does n't get lost in the ether wo n't be easy ; the likes of Buzzfeed , Vice , and Youtube are extremely well - known names that millions of viewers flock to because of specific channels , names , or points of view they house and represent . Here , Edwards said SnackableTV is looking at different ways to drive audiences to the platform ; one method it 's already crossed off the list is engaging influencers , which she said " felt really insincere and was so clunky in its execution , and did n't deliver results " .   However , SnackableTV has secured a partnership with APN News and Media to broadcast a youth channel on Catch , the company 's in - transit content player .   The startup also last month took a $ 300,000 loan from the NSW Government through its Jobs for NSW arm to help further its growth , with an eye on launching in the US over the next 12 months .