HBO/"Silicon Valley " and Skye Gould / Business Insider Part of the brilliance of HBO 's sitcom " Silicon Valley " is that leans on real - life people and events to show the silliness inherent in the tech industry . Some of its gags are so nuanced , they 're easy to miss . On the second episode of season four , the gang sits around the table eating pizza and tossing a ball . Eventually , Erlich , a character who owns the startup incubator where they live , moves the party outside and takes the pizza boxes with him . Blink and you might have missed it , but the boxes were round and made of something other than cardboard . It 's the only tell - tale sign that this was no ordinary pizza . In fact , the pizza -- made by pizza delivery startup Zume Pizza -- was created by robots . The characters never mentioned the pizza , nor were they shown actually eating it . Zume Pizza is located in Mountain View , California -- the heart of Silicon Valley . Founded in 2015 , the company aims to make better pizza more quickly by using robotics in the kitchen . A robot dispenses sauce on an uncooked pizza crust in the kitchen at Zume Pizza . Melia Robinson Robots use artificial intelligence to accept orders and make highly customizable pizzas . The kitchen can turn out 288 pizzas an hour . In an email to Business Insider , the team at Zume Pizza revealed what it was like making a cameo on the show set . " I 've loved Silicon Valley right from the offset -- long before I ever moved to the area , " Zume Pizza 's executive chef Aaron Butkus said . " So when we were asked to have our pies as part of the show , I was thrilled . " HBO/"Silicon Valley " and Skye Gould / Business Insider Producers at " Silicon Valley " reached out to the startup last October about using the pizza as a prop in the new season . The company sent 10 empty pizza boxes to the producers so they could check out the design . In addition to looking unusual , the boxes are made from sustainably farmed sugarcane fiber , which is recyclable and compostable . The bottom of the container has sloped ridges and a recess in the center that force liquids to pool where they wo n't touch pizza and make it soggy in transit ( though you ca n't make those details out on the show ) . Within a few weeks , Butkus and his brother drove from the Bay Area to a studio in Culver City , California , for the shoot . HBO/"Silicon Valley " and Skye Gould / Business Insider " The main challenge [ was ] that there would be no oven on site , and we wanted to ensure the pizza looked as if it was really delivered by Zume , not some substitute version , " a spokesperson for Zume Pizza says . Butkus brought 14 partially baked pizzas to the set , along with a portable oven to reheat and style the pizzas properly . When the brothers were told they were shooting the scene around the table , they finished cooking the pizzas and handed them off to the props crew . They made nine " Veggie Jackson " and five " Cheezy E " pies , that " turned out perfectly , " according to the spokesperson . " While we were n't able to go on set ( to keep plot developments confidential ) , we saw the cast from a distance coming and going from their trailers and studio , " Butkus says . After the episode was taped , Thomas Middleditch , who plays Richard on the show , met with Zume Pizza cofounder Alex Garden at the company 's office . Looking into some compression algorithms to integrate into our model . Really looking to put the " Pie " in Pied Piper .   @siliconhbo @piedpiperinc # MiddleOut # ZumePizza # A post shared by Zume Pizza   ( @zumepizza ) on Apr 12 , 2017 at 3:55pm PDT on Apr 12 , 2017 at 3:55pm PDT Looking into some compression algorithms to integrate into our model . Really looking to put the " Pie " in Pied Piper .   @siliconhbo @piedpiperinc # MiddleOut # ZumePizza # A post shared by Zume Pizza   ( @zumepizza ) on Apr 12 , 2017 at 3:55pm PDT on Apr 12 , 2017 at 3:55pm PDT Zume Pizza currently delivers robot - made pizza in Mountain View , and is gearing up for an expansion across the South Bay .