Shooting into popularity over the last couple of years , dating apps have quickly become the insert-90s - icon - here of the 21st century .   Their continual presence has led to a point where it 's not out of the norm to find at least one dating app on the average Australian 's phone , regardless of whether they 're in a relationship or not ( " I just wanted to see what everyone 's on about with Tinder ! " , they will say ) .   Thanks to booming consumer demand , the dating market has become saturated , meaning any business looking to carve their name into the dating scene has to go above and beyond to develop a unique identity , whether it 's through a focus on sexuality , niche interests or personality traits , and so on .   This formed part of the ambitious challenge that Max Kenny set out to overcome with the development of TwoPeas , a dating app with a focus on using strict search parameters to create a more profound connection experience . Interestingly , the founder did n't have any first - hand experience with dating platforms upon developing the concept of TwoPeas , instead gathering his inspiration from observing others as they adapted to the changing e - dating trends . " I viewed the change from pre - app dating up until now , and have seen a shift in society 's perception of these platforms and their role in finding love , " said Kenny . To elaborate on this point , Kenny attributed the rise of " casual " dating platforms such as Tinder to society " normalising " dating platforms , essentially taking their purpose less seriously .   " Even with the traditional platforms , a lot of users do n't treat it too seriously , while the modern platforms sort of gamified the search for love , " Kenny said . Acknowledging that , despite the changing stigma , there is still a popular market for dating apps , the entrepreneur sought to break the " endless loop " of consumers failing to connect with someone on a dating platform , taking a break , then returning to the same or another platform to try again .   " I looked to create something that focuses on more core values straight off the bat , so you 're meeting people who you have a strong hit rate with , " Kenny explained . To gain insight into the dating market and create a unique product , the founder conducted extensive research into how current dating platforms connect their users , noticing that mainstream platforms such as OkCupid and eHarmony sort their users by having them answer predefined questions that hold a set ' weighting ' of sorts . This concept applies to other dating apps in the market too , whereby an algorithm will determine how important questions such as ' have you been in a relationship before ' are when showing a list of matches . Kenny explained that these algorithms are often flexible , meaning users often get paired with others even if their values do n't match well .   Meanwhile , dating apps such as Tinder , Bumble , and Grindr devalue a user 's preferences nearly completely , instead choosing to bombard them with matches based on location proximity . To harness the best of these features and reshape their importance , TwoPeas allows its users to themselves weigh the importance of each question they answer .   Combined with the normal tidbits of taking into account a user 's interests , the TwoPeas algorithm is able to ' force ' its users to only connect with people who share their values . There 's also a machine learning feature to help sharpen the algorithm 's search parameters . " The machine learning looks at which questions work best at getting matches , then slightly adjusts how they 're weighed , " explained Kenny . When a user joins the platform , signing on through Facebook verification , they must answer and select the value of a pool of predefined questions , using a scale to adjust their choice accordingly . Like many other platforms , these questions range from opinions on global warming to if a user 's been married before .   After creating a profile , the platform functions similar to traditional dating app models , providing its users with a list of matches . What different , however , is that the user is n't able to view another user 's picture or profile without the two matching first .   " This enables something more profound than just looking at hair colour or body shape , " said Kenny . If two users match , they 'll then be able to chat upon gaining access to each other 's profiles . Somewhat contradicting the strictness of the search parameters , there 's also a location feature in the app , where the platform notifies the user of others in a slim radius .   Location features have been flagged as a privacy issue within connection apps such as Happn , Clink and Tinder , a concern which Kenny recognised and sought to alleviate in TwoPeas ; a user can not see any information about the other user nearby , including their picture . To extend upon its safety features , the startup has a team on - call 24/7 to investigate any reports a user submits . To scale this model alongside a growing user base , Kenny said the business will look into image recognition softwares and " other tech " , although it will require capital . Currently , the startup has been bootstrapped by Kenny ; there is no revenue model currently in place , though Kenny said he will look at both monetisation and investment moving forward .   Revenue will likely come in the form of a premium feature , as Kenny said , " [ Premium ] will charge an amount smaller than other dating apps out there and give the user access to things such as more search parameters . " Kenny said the app has gained strong traction since launch at the end of last year : TwoPeas saw 20,000 matches in a two week period , and is set to reach over 20,000 monthly active users at the end of January .   According to Kenny , 60 percent of these users are women .   With a premium feature on its way , the business will look for funding to accelerate its growth , aiming to reach 165,000 monthly active users by the end of this year .