A company that wants to turn Maine farmers ' surplus into high - end locally sourced frozen food has won the sixth annual UMaine Business Challenge , held in Orono . Anita van Dam and Grace Burchard , both students at College of the Atlantic in Bar Harbor , took home 1st place for their company , [ Re]Produce . The first - place finish comes with a $ 5,000 cash award , which van Dam said the pair will use to help launch the company in Portland this fall . ( More on [ Re]Produce below . ) Five teams of college entrepreneurs competed in the finals of the UMaine Business Challenge , which , despite its name , is open to student entrepreneurs from any Maine college or university . This year , three teams were from UMaine , one was from Southern Maine Community College , and the [ Re]Produce team is from College of the Atlantic . Second place , along with a $ 1,000 cash award , went to a group of three UMaine students -- Bradley Shepherd , William McEnery , and Devin Shepherd -- for their video game company , Boreal Games . Benjamin Koehler , a senior at UMaine studying mechanical engineering , won the Technology Award , which also comes with $ 5,000 , for a product he 's developed called the Comfort Appliance , which is able to draw heat off of a wood stove , and store it in a portable , insulated box that can then be carried to another room to provide warmth to an otherwise unheated space . Van Dam said [ Re]Produce provides value in two directions : first , it provides farmers an additional revenue stream by purchasing , processing and freezing their excess and unmarketable produce , and second , it provides discerning consumers with year - round access to locally grown vegetables . " By doing this , we increase access to local food while reducing ( in - field ) food waste , " van Dam told Maine Startups Insider . The company is beyond the idea phase . Van Dam , a sophomore , and Burchard , a senior , are currently working on the business in the Diana Davis Spencer Hatchery Accelerator , a business incubator at College of the Atlantic . They have worked on their business plan and spent time speaking with farmers , consumers and retailers to get more information about what the market is demanding . They already have eyes on a facility in Portland where they hope to launch the business this fall . The plan , as of now , is to market towards millennials , van Dam said . " Our niche market is millennials because they are more passionate about social and environmental issues and will use their food buying power to encourage change , " she said . Van Dam and Burchard have also spoken with the team behind Northern Girl , the innovative , locally focused food processor in Aroostook County that announced it was ceasing operations in early March . " They have given us valuable information that will help us make more strategic decisions , " van Dam said . " We admire Northern Girl for being the first local frozen produce business , and thank them for openly talking to us about potential problems that can arise from a business like ours . " The post [ Re]Produce wins UMaine Business Challenge appeared first on Maine Startups Insider . Read more about the Maine startup ecosystem here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of Maine Startups Insider , created by Whit Richardson , a journalist who 's covered Maine 's business community for the past decade . Visit Maine Startups Insider to read more about Maine 's startup community and subscribe to the weekly newsletter .