Team Suplari from left to right : " CTO Jeff Gerber ; CEO Nikesh ( Niki ) Parekh ; Lead Architect Octavian Florescu ; Chief Products Officer Brian White . Photo via Suplari .   Three veteran entrepreneurs just raised a hefty seed round from top venture capital firms for their stealthy enterprise startup . Suplari today announced a $ 3.1 million investment from Madrona Venture Group and Amplify Partners . Nikesh Parekh , the company 's CEO , told GeekWire that Suplari is in stealth mode and would n't reveal more details about its technology . The funding will be used to bring Suplari 's first product to market . " We are building an intelligent application focused on a unique data set in the enterprise that largely goes unmanaged today , " he noted . Parekh , a real estate technology veteran who previously held leadership positions at Market Leader and Trulia , co - founded Suplari with CTO Jeff Gerber and CPO Brian White . Gerber is a long - time engineering leader who co - founded startups like iConclude ( acquired by Opsware and later by HP ) and most recently helped lead Apptio 's machine learning and intelligent app development before the company went public last year . Parekh said Gerber originally approached him with the idea for Suplari . " The ' data liberation ' aspect of the business really appealed to me , particularly after seeing how Trulia and Zillow revolutionized real estate search by making data more accessible and approachable , " he noted . White , meanwhile , worked with Gerber at iConclude as an early employee ; he has experience working at places like Amazon Web Services and SkyTap . There are connections between the three founders and Madrona , one of the region 's top VC firms . Gerber previously worked at three separate Madrona - backed companies ; White worked for two Madrona - backed companies ; Parekh was an entrepreneur - in - residence at the firm nine years ago . Parekh said Suplari is a " great example of the importance of taking a long - term view on relationships , particularly in a city like Seattle . " In a blog post , Madrona Managing Director Matt McIlwain said the firm 's investment in Suplari is similar to other " intelligent app " startups it backs like Turi , Algorithmia , and MightyAI . He said " intelligent apps " is " an area we helped define . " " Intelligent apps combine data and machine learning to provide real - time , actionable insight into business and consumer applications , " McIlwain wrote . Suplari , which is working out of Madrona 's Seattle office , plans to employ 10 people by the end of 2017 .