Once a place reserved for posting shameless selfies , Instagram has rapidly shifted over the last few years to become the go - to place for brands to promote their products . Over five million global businesses look to Instagram to drive their product , with a fifth of them using paid advertisements on the platform to help spread their content . Harnessing the growth potential Instagram holds for brands is Postie , an online marketing tool which integrates a brand 's Instagram content into email templates in a bid to create appealing EDMs . Postie 's algorithm detects the ' best ' content in a brand 's Instagram feed based on factors such as likes and comments , before automatically spacing it out across an email . The platform is the first product developed by Astronaut Lab , a startup which focuses on imagining and developing products for different markets . The startup was founded by Peter Davis , who previously worked in the digital marketing space and was attracted to building his own startup after having helped build influence.co , a platform focused on connecting marketing ' influencers ' to brands and agencies . " I knew I wanted to start something in the tech space . Astronaut Lab is the studio through which we have a talented team of people collaborating around developing ideas into products that we can take to market , and then kill or spin - up based on the numbers and the numbers alone , " Davis explained . Astronaut Lab 's first product , Postie serves as a conversion tool for brands who have posted content to Instagram and are looking to draw through clicks to their website , while also serving as an extra avenue through which brands can put their Instagram content in the face of customers who may not be social followers , but email subscribers . " With Instagram 's reach algorithm , now only 20/25 percent of followers are seeing a brand 's content , " said Davis . " Obviously Instagram also does n't drive direct traffic from posts , so with Postie we 're saying , for people who have seen your content already , this is the conversion tool , and for people who haven't yet seen it , this is your second chance to get your content out in front of your customers . " For a customer sifting through piles of content - heavy daily emails in their inbox , Davis added that the picture - esque , aesthetic nature of Postie email offers them a " low touch " , easily readable alternative . " With Postie 's format , it does n't ask much of the consumer ; here 's our best snaps , check them out and click if there 's something that grabs you , " he said . Beginning development of Postie last year , key to the product 's identity was automation , which would serve as a way to greatly reduce the amount of time brands spend on putting together an EDM filled with Instagram content at the end of a busy day . For many brands , posting content to Instagram alone can be a protracted task , involving delicate lighting setups , image editing and multiple takes to get the right shot . " Brands put a lot of time and effort into making the output as appealing as possible , and continue to build connections and communities through [ Instagram ] , " said Davis . As such , the startup is targeting brands that are " time poor " and can not spare the time requirement to organise regular email content using traditional marketing platforms . Currently , Postie serves kids accessory brands , restaurants , hairdressers and ( completely unexpectedly ) fashion brands . It 's currently free for a brand to sign up to the platform , as Davis explained the business is in the process of building up a client base to discover what features they 'd like to see in a premium model , and then introduce the paid version . " Once we 've worked this out and built it , we 'll likely have monthly charge to access pro features that scales based on database size , " he said . Once signed up a brand connects their Instagram account , uploads their database of images , chooses a design template , then schedules when they want their EDMs sent . Postie then integrates the most relevant and recent Instagram content into the template two days before it 's scheduled to send , allowing the user a chance to make manual changes if they choose . A brand can manually add in hyperlinks to their respective web pages , and can also move images around the template and add any necessary copywriting . " They 're typically spending 15 minutes on editing their campaigns and then that 's it , " said Davis . " [ Meanwhile ] we 're hearing from a lot of brands that they 're spending at least five hours on their Mailchimp campaigns , and it 's just tough to actually find the time to do it when you need to work out what you 're going to say , write it , find or create the images and then build it . " Having bootstrapped establishing Astronaut Lab and Postie 's development , Davis said the business will aim to get 5,000 users from a range of industries utilising Postie on a regular basis as it works towards its paid model .