With barriers to entry coming down fast startup , digital - only banks are starting to get their licences . Atom is one of the first , receiving its licence in June 2015 and launching services through its mobile app in April 2016 .   Based in Durham , Atom Bank is marketing itself to young , internet savvy users tired of traditional banks . The website , branding and marketing is both cuddly and slick . Atom Bank started providing two year fixed rate residential mortgages through selected independent advisers in December 2016 , joining its two Fixed Saver accounts and SME business lending product . Customers can track any changes to their mortgage progress after receiving a decision in principle ( DIP ) through the Atom app . Current accounts are due to be added later this year . The bank was founded by Anthony Thomson who co - founded Metro Bank and the CEO is Mark Mullen , formerly of First Direct , so there is banking pedigree at the top level of Atom Bank . Atom Bank has raised an eye popping PS234 million in capital so far , including a reported PS100 m venture round in February 2017 . Existing investors include hedge fund Toscafund , Neil Woodford , and Spanish bank BBVA . Digital challenger bank Monzo ( the challenger bank officially changed its name from Mondo in August 2016 following an undisclosed legal challenge ) is building its banking software from the ground up so that customers will have a current account that lives on your smartphone . This will include transparent , real - time information about your money , geolocated transactions , peer - to - peer transactions and historic data on your spending with specific retailers . Monzo gained its full , unrestricted banking licence from UK regulators in February 2017 . This means the now - official bank can hold customer money and offer products like current accounts . CEO and former GoCardless co - founder Tom Blomfield wrote in a blog post last year : " We 're tired of hidden fees and charges , endless paper forms , and nothing quite working in the way we 'd expect . So we 're trying to build a bank that we 'd want for ourselves , our friends , and our families . " Monzo raised PS19.5 million in February 2017 , led by Thrive Capital . Other investors included Orange Digital Ventures and Passion Capital , who already invested PS13 million in the startup bank . Monzo is also seeking a further PS2.5 million crowdfunding round through Crowdcube ( also on this list ) after raising PS1 million in 96 seconds on the platform in March 2016 . You can keep up to date with what Monzo is up to through its product roadmap , which is a publicly available Trello board . While working for Skype in London , Taavet Hinrikus grew tired of paying fees when transferring money back to Estonia to pay his mortgage . Along with Kristo Kaarman he launched TransferWise in 2011 as a peer - to - peer money transfer platform which would save people and business owners paying hidden bank fees and inflated exchange rates when transferring money into different currencies . The easy to use online platform lets you convert currency using a calculator tool which shows transparent pricing on the exchange rate and the TransferWise will charge , which is typically 0.5 percent for GBP transfers , as well as how much they think this is saving you . TransferWise is UK Financial Conduct Authority authorised and attained unicorn status in May. The company was valued at $ 1.1 billion following an additional $ 26 million ( PS17.7 m ) funding round led by Scottish asset manager Baillie Gifford and existing investors like Andreessen Horowitz , Richard Branson , Peter Thiel , and Max Levchin . Former CEO Nick Hungerford founded Nutmeg to make investments accessible as an online platform . Nutmeg acts as an online wealth manager from as little starting capital as PS500 and charges a management fee of 0.3 percent to 0.95 percent compared to a UK active fund average of 1.58 percent .   When you register you tell the platform what you are saving for and how much risk you want to take before being presented with a portfolio that you can check in on 24/7 . The investment decisions are made by the Nutmeg team on your behalf , no algorithms . You can withdraw your money whenever you want with no exit fees . All the hallmarks of a good fintech company are there : an user - friendly online interface , transparent pricing and a mission to bring down barriers . Nutmeg has raised PS71 million to date , including a PS12 million round in January led by Asian bank Taipei Fubon . Other investors include Schroders , Balderton Capital , Pentech , Armada Investment Group and Nigel Wray . Founded by Oxford graduates Matt Robinson and Hiroki Takeuchi , GoCardless uses technology to process business to business payments and direct debits quicker than traditional providers . The technology brings down barriers for small businesses to process direct debits by aggregating payments , and fees are kept low at 1 percent per transaction which is capped at PS2 . Customers can process payments using one of three tools : an online dashboard , account software partnerships or as an integration via an API . Customers ca n't accept credit card or instant payments via the platform though and the system is limited to the UK and Europe as the company continues to grow . GoCardless raised $ 25 million ( PS20 million ) in funding so far , including a $ 13 million round in March 2016 led by new investor Notion Capital , with participation from existing backers Balderton Capital , Accel Partners , and Passion Capital . Revolut started life as a mobile wallet app to help customers avoid fees when taking out money abroad . Once signed up users get a physical MasterCard . You top the card up from your debit account and when you make purchases abroad the card exchanges the money into the local currency so that you do n't get hit with any fees . Customers can also easily send money to friends through popular channels like WhatsApp . Even though it does n't have a banking licence the startup launched its own version of a current account in February 2017 , so UK customers can get a personal international bank account number ( IBAN ) through the app . This means customers can transfer money from an existing bank account and route their salary directly into Revolut , but not direct debits . The app also added spending categorisation , bill splitting , remote card freeze and a chatbot to handle support requests . It followed this up with the launch of a premium service in March 2017 , allowing customers to spend , transfer and exchange unlimited amounts of money in 23 currencies without any fees for PS6.99 a month . Revolut has raised around PS20 million to date from venture funds like Balderton Capital , Index Ventures , Point Nine , Venrex , along with angel investors and crowdfunding . This includes a PS6.75 million round in July 2016 . Azimo is a mobile money transfer startup in the vein of WorldRemit or TransferWise with a focus on migrants wanting to send money home at up to 90 percent less than traditional remittance services like major banks and Western Union . App users can also request , send and receive cash internationally using just a mobile phone number . Azimo has raised a total of $ 46 million ( PS37 million ) so far , including a venture round of $ 15 million ( PS12 million ) from Japanese ecommerce company Rakuten in May 2016 . ClearBank is the UK 's first new clearing bank in more than 250 years . Launched by Nick Ogden , formerly of Worldpay , ClearBank is a little different to most fintech companies in that it is not for consumers . Instead , ClearBank provides access to the primary UK payments and card issuing systems , like Faster Payments and SWIFT , for new entrants to the financial services industry to get started quickly and easily . The startup will be using Microsoft cloud technology through two data centres , which it hopes will give it greater agility , transparency and the ability to charge lower fees than the big four clearing banks , which are laden with legacy technology . ClearBank services are due to be generally available by Autumn 2017 . Ogden himself is worth north of PS40 million and the startup has been backed by John Risley , a Canadian entrepreneur , and Petr Kellner , who founded the PPF investment fund . London - based fintech startup iwoca ( instant working capital ) gives small business fast and flexible access to capital , without the upfront fees , lengthy forms and long - term commitments traditionally associated with business credit . The founding team consists of CTO James Dear , who holds a PhD in theoretical physics from Kings College London , and CEO and ex - Goldman Sachs trader Christoph Rieche . The startup has already lent PS200 million to small businesses.- iwoca has raised $ 59 million million to small businesses . The secret sauce of iwoca is its risk model , which uses big data techniques to asses small businesses ' trading data to make a quick , informed assessment of risk and what credit limit they are subsequently willing to give , ranging from one month 's revenue to PS100,000 . There are no upfront fees , iwoca charges a basic interest rate starting at two percent and increasing the longer you take to pay . iwoca has raised $ 59 million ( PS47 million ) in funding so far , including a $ 20 million ( PS15 million ) Series B round led by CommerzVentures , Acton Capital Partners and German VC firm Redline Capital . Tide is a fintech startup focusing on business customers . Business banking is infamously antiquated and time consuming , so Tide has created a set of tools to try and help small business owners with their banking . Customers can get started straight from their mobile by scanning an ID and will be sent a MasterCard to use for business transactions . Tide also provides a set of digital tools to help simplify some of the more time - consuming aspects of business banking . This includes automated bookkeeping , expense tracking with the ability to attach notes , incomes and photos to each transaction , and automated invoice scanning . Your money will be held by Barclays but it wo n't be re - invested by the bank . Tide also charges lower fees than normal business accounts , with no account or card purchase fees , 20p per transfer and PS1 per ATM withdrawal . Tide raised a seed round of $ 2 million ( PS1.6 million ) in July 2016 from LocalGlobe , Passion Capital and some angel investors . Receipt Bank looks to solve a tedious business problem : bookkeeping . Instead of accountants having to receive invoices and manually input the information into an Excel spreadsheet , the cloud - based software automatically extracts the data into the platform and delivers downloadable spreadsheets , or even integrates with your existing cloud based accounting software , saving accountants and small businesses time and effort . All you have to do is get clients to send their invoices and expense claims into the Receipt Bank email address provided when you register . Receipt Bank raised PS3.1 million from Silicon Valley Bank in January 2017 , with the money earmarked for expanding its artificial intelligence ( AI ) capabilities . This follows a $ 10 million ( PS7 million ) Series A funding round led by Kennet Partners in February the year before . SETL is a payment and settlements infrastructure based on blockchain technology based out of London and an engineering centre in Ipswich . The startup has a general purpose blockchain solution for financial services companies looking for immutable payments and settlements called OpenCSD , and has already helped clients like Deloitte - which has invested in the startup - with an ID system based on blockchain . In the company 's words : " The SETL system will enable market participants to move cash and assets directly between each other , facilitating the immediate and final settlement of market transactions . The SETL system maintains a permissioned , distributed ledger of ownership and transaction records , simplifying the process of matching , settlement , custody , registration and transaction reporting . " SETL has raised around PS30 million in funding so far . dopay has built a cloud - based payroll platform which allows employers to pay people who do n't have a bank account ( two billion people worldwide according to the startup ) without having to deal in cash . Founded by Dutch serial entrepreneur Frans van Eersel in 2013 , dopay works out of the Level39 accelerator in London 's Canary Wharf . The highly - automated platform also simplifies payroll processes for finance departments , like calculating salaries , emailing payroll slips and submitting government forms . Employees can get their salary paid into a dopay account , which comes with a pre - paid Visa card to use at ATMs , in - store or online , as well as an app for managing their finances on their phone . The company has raised $ 2.4 million ( PS1.8 million ) in a pre - series A funding round led by Techstars Ventures and Force Over Mass Capital in January 2016 . Trussle was founded in 2015 by Ishaan Malhi , a former real estate and structured finance analyst at Bank Of America Merrill Lynch , and Jonathan Galore , an experienced fintech entrepreneur , the online mortgage advisor has been regulated by the FCA and already claims to manage nearly PS500 million of mortgages . With Trussle you can apply for a mortgage online in less than five minutes , with no paperwork involved . Trussle aggregates mortgage products via an API feed provided by a specialist company , and works with the mortgage advisors bureau ( MAB ) , giving them access to roughly 11,000 deals from 90 lenders in the UK market . Read more : Meet Trussle , the one - year - old startup taking on the UK mortgage industry Trussle has also built a mortgage tracking service , built on the aforementioned API , which will automatically compare a customers existing mortgage with alternatives in the market on the back end and email you if there is a better deal available . Trussle has been backed to the tune of one million pounds by angel investors , LocalGlobe and Seedcamp . Property search giant Zoopla announced a strategic partnership with Trussle in February . Trussle raised PS4.5 million in funding in January 2017 led by Orange Growth Capital and including investment from existing investors LocalGlobe , Seedcamp and property portal Zoopla , who combined for a PS1.1million seed round in February 2016 alongside angel investors Ed Wray and Ian Hogarth . Chip is an automated savings app which links up with your current account . The Chip algorithm calculates how much you can afford to save and transfer it to a Chip savings account - held with Barclays - adjusting all the time depending on spending habits . Users simply have to download the iOS or Android app and grant Chip read - only access to their online banking through an encrypted API . Chip currently works with Barclays , HSBC , Santander , Lloyds , NatWest , Nationwide , RBS , TSB , Halifax , First Direct , Co - operative Bank and Metro Bank . The mobile savings app is a busy space , with rivals like the Facebook messenger app Plum and Moneybox offering alternatives , but Chip 's founder Simon Rabin - who created and sold the roaming charge - avoiding app Roamer - says that savings are just the start , with other financial services in its sights . Curve allows you to combine all of your bank cards under a single app and card . Not only does this make your wallet lighter but you can track all of your transactions in one place , in real time . How does it work ? Just take a picture of your cards ( current account , credit card : regardless of which country that account is based in ) and Curve pulls them together into an Apple Pay style display . You then set a default card using the app , allowing you to use your Curve card for chip and PIN , contactless , cash withdrawals or mobile payments , all under a single PIN . The Curve card is build on MasterCard rails , meaning it is accepted anywhere MasterCard is and comes with all the same security , with the added assurance that your actual cards are safely left at home . You also wo n't get charged when using Curve abroad , regardless of which card you use or which currency you are dealing in . All transaction data is then pulled together in the Curve app . You will get a notification once a payment is made and you can tag and categorise payments on the platform to get a simple view of your finances . You will still be charged for ATM withdrawals when abroad though ( PS2 ) and Curve charges one percent on top of the MasterCard wholesale foreign exchange rate . Update 25/05/2016 : Curve has announced that it no longer supports American Express transactions . A tweet from the American credit card company 's UK account stated : " We do n't feel confident in the support / service in place . We remain open to discussion with curve [ sic ] if we can work in the future . " One of the key selling points for Curve was being able to use your AmEx in locations where it normally was n't accepted and still collect reward points . Curve costs PS35 to get an account set up and a card shipped out to you , with no further fees . Curve completed a $ 2 million ( PS1.4 m ) seed round in December , led by Taavet Hinrikus of TransferWise , Ricky Knox of Tandem bank , Ed Wray of Betfair and former members of the Google Wallet team . Cardiff - based fintech startup Wealthify launched in the UK in April with its hybrid investment platform , combining humans and algorithms to offer investment portfolios with lower barriers to entry . CEO Richard Theo told Techworld.com : " We 're trying to democratise investing to make it accessible with a much lower starting point at PS250 [ Nutmeg starts at PS500 ] and the whole simplicity of design is to target the mass market . " Wealthify will ask you to select a risk proposition , which is presented in plain language . This is then backed up by a suitability test to validate their own logic on risk models , " so a safety net to make sure people are n't going in the wrong direction , " says Theo . Then Wealthify will invest in a range of asset classes , like Exchange - Traded Funds ( ETFs ) , with the algorithms defining which asset classes to invest in and when depending on market information and your risk profile . According to Theo , due to regulatory reasons Wealthify can not define the returns ( although Nutmeg does with its ISA proposition ) but : " Historical stock market trends over the last five years and over the MCIS stock market index shows 8.2% per year . " This varies dependent on risk . Wealthify has been funded by it 's co - founders so far and will be seeking additional funding now that it has launched . Theo said : " There is no shortage of appetite for investing , no question , but crowdfunding could be good for the advocacy reason . " DueDil is the UK 's equivalent to Bloomberg business when it comes to getting information on companies , but with more detail . The platform pulls together data from thousands of sources including company websites , financial filings , news reports , registry data , trademarks , and country court judgments . This information is then searchable by company and presented in on a user friendly platform . This helps companies do their due diligence ( hence the name ) and avoid risks by identifying the right companies to sell to , get insights into their business , and make a sale . Since 2011 DueDil has raised nearly $ 30 m ( PS20.6 m ) from investors including Oak Investment Partners , Passion Capital and Notion Capital . and includes customers like Royal Mail , Stripe and Kuoni . Everyone has heard of Kickstarter , a peer - to - peer platform that allows people to raise funds for projects via donations from the general public . Crowdcube takes this idea and applies it to investing in actual businesses . Users of Crowdcube can play venture capitalist but on their financial terms by investing in startups , early stage and growth businesses and receive equity , debt and investment fund options in return . Since 2011 the platform has funded companies to the tune of PS138 m already via 245,690 registered investors , including tech startups like Rentify and Luxtripper . Crowdcube itself has raised PS6 million from stockbroker Numis , Draper Esprit and Balderton Capital . Funding Circle 's peer - to - peer platform lets savers invest in small UK businesses and earn an estimated return of 7.1 percent , while the businesses themselves get access to loans of between PS5,000-PS1 million without having to deal with banks . On December 29 , 2015 Funding Circle passed the PS1bn mark in terms of funding , coming from 46,865 investors . The UK government backed the startup in February 2014 with a PS40 m investment from the British government to fund small businesses through the Funding Circle platform . Funding Circle landed in the top five of KPMG 's fintech 100 list , the highest ranked UK startup .   Bud is an app which helps customers bundle all of their financial services into a single digital wallet to help keep tabs on all transactions and cut through the noise . Bud plans to launch a ' marketplace ' where you can compare different available products this year , but instead of having to do the heavy lifting yourself Bud will include algorithms for smarter matching of customers and products . It is also looking to incorporate an ' intelligent assistant ' feature into the app .   Bud has been self - funded to this point but plans to raise its first round of capital in 2017 .