Starting a company is hard enough , but establishing a startup across different continents adds to the challenge . But that 's what my cofounders , Kristina Prokop and Trent Lloyd , and I did more than six years ago when we started Eyeota , the global leader for audience data , simultaneously in Singapore , Berlin , and Sydney . Being a programmatic startup in EMEA and APAC was challenging . Eyeota was founded at a time when the ad tech landscape was changing and programmatic advertising was emerging . Seeing the need for audience targeting solutions , we set out to build an audience data marketplace to support the growth of programmatic and the range of marketing opportunities and beyond . Ambitious as we were , the market was still in its infancy , especially in those regions , and we were helping to break new ground on a global scale . Fast forward six years and we recently opened our first U.S. location and our seventh office globally . Many people ask us why we started internationally in the first place . Their argument is that the U.S. is the most important and powerful market and businesses should start here before going overseas . Unfortunately , many entrepreneurs fail before they 've even had a chance to set foot in another state . Starting a company internationally helps you to understand the expanse of the world . American companies think everything works like the U.S. because it 's big and homogenous . But they forget that people are very different outside of the U.S. So when they decide to expand internationally , the market can be unforgiving . Building infrastructure in a new country needs to be done on a local level . Every single market you enter , people have different cultures , different habits , and different ways of doing things . As a data company , we know this firsthand . We are very careful developing local data sets and building segments so that our understanding of consumers , our data collection and our privacy adherences are on a local level . Everything from customs to business is done differently from region to region . For example , in the U.S. , business transactions are very upfront and direct . You have a discussion , you negotiate the best deal , and you 're done . Meanwhile , in the UK , you might have to take an agency out for drinks for a few weeks before you can earn and build that trust . You ca n't simply take an American paradigm and deploy it in Asia or the UK , just like you ca n't take a German paradigm and deploy it in the U.S. , Canada , or Japan . The world is different ; the sooner you understand that , the sooner you 'll be able to successful run a truly global business . Here are some global tips to help make the expansion smoother : The world is a big and diverse place . What will work in one region may not work in another . Understand the differences and nuances in societies , cultures , behaviors , practices , structure and localness . By better understanding your market on a local level , you 'll be able to operate more successfully . Do n't assume that what has worked for you in other areas will work in other markets . To be successful in a new market , you need a tremendous amount of patience , understanding , and listening . You will learn a lot over time but there will always be something that arises that will surprise you . At the onset , we focused heavily on data privacy and quality and ensured that we were adhering to each region 's data privacy and collection guidelines . We wanted to make sure that not only was our data accurate but that it was of the highest quality . Partners are essential . We work with our partners ( publishers and data suppliers ) in a true collaborative effort , helping them turn their data into assets that they can monetize and build a business from . Whether they 're yours or someone else 's , pay close attention . When we first started Eyeota , we wanted to build or business across the world in non - U.S. markets . At the time , the ad tech market in the U.S. was very commoditized and cluttered with companies venturing into the ad network space . Unfortunately , that sector experienced a decline . Hire smart people with the right attitude and basic skill sets , and you can train them and help build their experience as an asset . Although there was never any shortage of people who wanted to work with us , we had challenges finding the right people with the right experience when we first started . It was a new market so we invested in a lot of education and training . Read more about global entrepreneurs here at Tech . Co