While investors poured $ 13.9 billion into venture - backed startups during the first quarter of 2017 , none of those dollars found their way to Maine companies , according to the MoneyTree Report , a quarterly tally of VC deals from PricewaterhouseCoopers and CB Insights . It 's the first quarter in more than a year that Maine companies did n't record a single VC deal ( though comparisons over time are now difficult as the MoneyTree Report changed its methodology at the end of 2016 ) . Last year 's first quarter saw three Maine companies ( Pika Energy , Redd , and Cerahelix ) raise a total of roughly $ 3.8 million . However , as Mainebiz points out , Rambler 's Way Farm ( started by Tom Chappell of Tom 's of Maine fame ) and Double Blue Sports Analytics both filed paperwork with the SEC during the first quarter that updated previously reported investment rounds . Maine Venture Fund did n't make any investments during the first quarter either , because MVF is a quasi - state organization , the MoneyTree Report does n't include its deals in the report . " Lots of things cooking , but no closes , " John Burns , MVF 's managing director , reports . Burns said MVF has two follow - on investments ready to close during the second quarter , though . Maine was the sole New England state to record zero VC deals during the first quarter , according to the MoneyTree Report . Companies in Massachusetts , which is the region 's perennial VC magnet , pulled in $ 1.8 billion over 95 deals , while Connecticut companies pulled in $ 85.9 million in 12 deals . Rhode Island and New Hampshire both recorded three deals that brought in $ 18.8 million and $ 16.2 million , respectively . A single deal in Vermont got it on the board with $ 150,000 . The post Maine startups log zero VC deals in Q1 appeared first on Maine Startups Insider . Read more about the Maine startup ecosystem here on Tech . Co Photo : Flickr / Steve Dorsey This article is courtesy of Maine Startups Insider , created by Whit Richardson , a journalist who 's covered Maine 's business community for the past decade . Visit Maine Startups Insider to read more about Maine 's startup community and subscribe to the weekly newsletter .