In the startup community , the do - it - yourself ( DIY ) approach to bootstrapping a business is NOT the most celebrated concept . It is considered inefficient and risk - ridden and , I dare say , not at all sexy . But myths are made to be debunked . Bootstrapping is n't always a surefire route to burnout and hitting the deadpool . It can be a path to creating real businesses , small or large , that can support their founders and employees . Over the last 16 years of bootstrapping and running two profitable businesses , I 've learned my fair share of lessons . And through my success and failures , I can confidently say that bootstrapping is a viable method . With all the tools and resources out there , the right strategies and sheer persistence , you have a good chance to succeed . My entrepreneurial journey began back in 2000 . I was completing my last semester as a Biology major at the University of Maryland , a couple years after being diagnosed with a debilitating autoimmune illness called Crohn 's Disease , all along clueless about where I was headed with my career . My friends were getting ready for summer vacation and preparing for graduate school , while I was forced to drop out of college and ended up stuck at home , nearly bedridden .   I was on a ridiculously strict diet and several medications . I was months away from achieving remission and getting back to normal life . It was one of those moments in which I felt I was reaching rock bottom , both personally and career wise . I had two options : do nothing and let time go to waste ; or own the situation and put all of my free time to better use . This is when I received my first lesson as a DIY entrepreneur : Starting a venture does n't require a lot of material resources . Your most important asset is unbridled enthusiasm and abundant persistence .   I had $ 170 in my bank account , an old desktop computer with a big fat VGA monitor , and a lot of time . It turned out to be more than enough to start creating something from nothing ; a sort of baby step that led me to start the two companies I continue to run today . While I was low on resources , timing worked in my favor . The turn of the millennium presented unprecedented growth opportunities for the internet . It was the time for businesses to go online . Y2 K thankfully did n't trigger the end of technology as we know it , and , as many have predicted , the netizen population was growing exponentially , and thousands of dotcom startups and billions of dollars were meeting face to face . My intuition told me it was the right time to start an internet business , and I came up with this idea : Set up coupon pages for businesses so that their customers could print out special offers from the web . Then came lesson number two : Things wo n't go as planned , but do n't overlook the opportunities that come with change .   After a few weeks of rejection , a turning point happened : a local business owner called and asked me to design a website for him . " Sorry , that 's not what I do , " I explained to him . " What I offer is an online coupon page and you pay me a fee to host it online . " With an incredulous gasp he said : " Why the heck would I want that ? I want my own website ! How much would that be ? " That was the third most important lesson I 've learned : Give your customer what they want , and not what you think they would want .   I thought to myself : Why in the world am I selling $ 99 coupon pages when this business ( and probably many others like it ) would be happy to pay me more to have their own site ?   Today " validating your business model early and often " is widely adopted and recommended by the startup community . Back in the early 2000s , I learned validation the hard way . I wasted a lot of time and resources due to the habit of jumping right into an idea when I saw an ocean of opportunities . When it comes to actually delivering what my client wanted , I was clueless . I had never took a class on design or worked on a design project . But as a DIY entrepreneur , I had set my mind on creating and learning everything myself , including teaching myself web design . It took me more than 150 hours and countless revisions to deliver a small static five - page website that got me my first hard earned $ 800 . Looking back I had earned below minimum wage . But the important lesson number four I learned here is priceless : As a DIY entrepreneur , you do n't have to learn everything yourself .    The DIY attitude is a double - edged sword . The figuring - out - on - my - own mentality was a little egotistical when I was younger . HindSite Interactive- the web design agency I ended up running - went on to deliver over 350 custom websites over the next 15 years . But I admit : I would have avoided much wasted time and effort if I had sought out for some advice rather than learning it through trial and error . Eventually , I figured out a process whereby clients would offer input early on to achieve a design that both sides would be happy with . Had I been exposed to the user - centric design process sooner , these wasted efforts would have been avoided . There is one thing I 'm proud to have figured out very early on . Putting in hard work to service your customers is the foundation of a successful business . So here is my lesson number five : take damn good care of your customers , and they will take care of you . Happy customers become your evangelists . They 're the ones who will keep coming back for more and generate new business leads and help you grow organically . This powerful lesson of customer retention certainly served me well in my second venture into the software - as - a - service ( SaaS ) business , where the human interaction of client - facing work pretty much disappears , and the user experience of the software product carries the brunt of the weight in customer decision making . But first , let me walk you through what sparked my transition from a service - based business into a SaaS business . HindSite was delivering interactive websites built on Adobe Flash . This went on for eight years until Apple came out and killed Adobe Flash as the way interactive content was designed . It took me a year to realise that flash sites were going nowhere after HindSite started taking a hit in business . Then this sixth lesson dawned on me : When a technology wave comes , instead of fighting it , ride with it . As a DIY entrepreneur , resilience is the ability to quickly adapt to change and not resist it . Change might seem scary when you have to step away from your comfort zone . In my case , a business I 'd built from scratch , but it was necessary to evolve . That 's how Visme came about . It 's a do - it - yourself online tool that is a perfect marriage between key features of Powerpoint and a design tool to allow virtually anyone to create beautiful presentations , infographics , social and web graphics , among other types of visual content . A user - based cloud software business model is fundamentally different from that of a design consultancy : it 's not based on how many hours you work but how good of a product you develop and how you gain and maintain user interactions .   What 's also changed is how profitability works for this business model . For a consulting business you are profitable as long as clients are happy to pay a fee that 's greater than your labour and operational costs . It 's a straightforward formula . For SaaS , revenue comes from premium subscriptions . For a premium model , where only a percentage of free users will convert to paying users , the Lifetime Value ( LTV ) is varied across different user types . So the profitability math here is a lot more complex than a service - based business : There are more variables in this formula . This is my seventh lesson as a software entrepreneur : Running a SaaS business is like running a marathon . There are milestones but no finish line . Success here is not linear : you will always be optimising all variables of success and investing in R&D to stay ahead of competition . I also learned that every dollar needs to be spent with a purpose . As a DIY SaaS product owner , the single most important mission for me is to make sure the product is market ready and viable to survive regardless of whether or not venture funding is available . I was lucky enough to be in a position where I could support the development and preparation with a profitable service business for two years before we made our first buck with Visme . If you ask me if I would choose to bootstrap my businesses if I had a chance to redo everything again , my answer would be a resounding " yes . " I did n't just want a quick in and out with investor money ; my vision was to create an awesome product of long - term reliability our users can depend on for all their visual content needs . It is n't the most sexy product idea to sell to investors , and requires a slow start and progressive fine tuning . My eighth lesson is more of a revelation : choosing to bootstrap gives you maximum freedom to make decisions that are best for your users .   At Visme , we do n't have to worry about playing up to vanity metrics or paying back early stage investors . As a team , we had the luxury to be single - mindedly focused on improving the tool and the service . With the right strategies and tools in place , you too can bootstrap your way to profitability . And even if you are doing it the DIY way , be open minded to advice and tips . When you have created something great out of nothing , it is a tremendously rewarding experience .