Want to ask a question and get a fast answer ? There 's a skill for that . In this case , skill is the term for " app " in Amazon Alexa 's voice ecosystem .   In case you missed the news , Alexa is Amazon 's digital assistant . It 's capable of voice interaction , offering reminders , playing music , streaming podcasts , playing audiobooks and providing up - to - the - minute news . Alexa is also open to a variety of solutions that have yet to be created . To foster their invention , Amazon recently launched an online hub that can help brands get started with creating skills for Alexa . As of now , the hub currently lists 20 agencies " with experience in designing , developing , and optimizing Alexa skills . " However , some small - business owners might find that it 's a bit too expensive to outsource the development of an Alexa skill . For those companies , the hub has them covered as well . Businesses with some in - house technical talent can produce their own Alexa skill with a software development kit and various frameworks that are offered on the hub . For starters , there 's the Alexa Skills Kit . It includes a collection of self - service APIs , documentation , code samples and tools so that already experienced developers can produce a skill in quickly . Then there 's PullString . That 's a development environment that , according to Amazon , " lets developers and creatives within startups , agencies and enterprises develop human - fidelity computer conversations . " Next is Conversible , a software - as - a - service ( SaaS ) platform that enables developers to create automated customer engagement conversation flows . Finally , the hub offers Bespoken Tools . This suite of solutions offers a command line interface for the Alexa Skills Kit so that developers can run Alexa code from their own machines . But , Amazon does n't just throw developers a few tools and hope for the best . The company provides several tutorials so that they can quickly start creating their own skills . Even better , the tutorials offer templates that developers can adapt to their own business needs . For example , some developers might adapt the Calendar Reader skill template to create a date - driven skill relevant to their brand . Although Amazon has made it easy for developers to create Amazon skills , there 's still one glaring problem that hasn't been addressed : discovery . In other words , once a skill is complete , certified and available for use , how do people find it ? The answer to that question is still a bit fuzzy . Amazon took steps last summer to make skills easier to find , but there are lingering issues . Also , of the more than 7,000 skills that have been deployed , less than a third of them have a review . That 's strange considering that Amazon is famous for reviews . In fairness , though , skill discovery is n't a problem that 's unique to the Alexa ecosystem . Both Android and iOS have problems with discovery as well . Why does Amazon make it so easy for people to develop skills for Alexa ? Because the company wants digital strategists to adopt voice - driven technologies . There 's a good reason for that . It appears that consumers have already adopted voice technology as a convenient way to get the answers they need without touching a keyboard . In January , Consumer Intelligence Research Partners ( CIRP ) reported that 8.2 million US Amazon customers have Amazon Echo devices . Before those sales figures were released , CIRP had estimated that only 5.1 million units would be sold . Slice Intelligence recently reported that Amazon Echo is going " mainstream . " That means , five years from now , it could be the next smartphone . Whether or not that happens remains to be seen . For now , though , it 's clear that Echo is an emerging technology that might very well become a part of almost every household . John Lincoln is CEO of Ignite Visibility , a digital - marketing teacher at the University of California San Diego and an online - marketing consultant . He has worked with hundreds of clients ranging from startups to large companies such as FOX , ...