In a research study by McKinsey and Company , companies that have an ethnically diverse work culture are " 35 percent more likely to have financial returns above their respective national industry medians . " While there are hundreds of programs designed to help minorities get established in burgeoning fields , many companies still fail to deliver a diverse workforce . Fortunately , Felecia Hatcher , founder of Code Fever and Black Tech Week , is committed to fueling this needed change . Hatcher is on a mission to rid our communities of innovation deserts by working with community leaders and government officials to create inclusive and diverse startup ecosystems through her work with Code Fever , an initiative connecting minority led startup founders to the resources they need to succeed . They provide everything from capital and training to accelerator programs and showcase opportunities , like Black Tech Week . And that , says Hatcher , is more rewarding than anything . " What 's liberating for me is when we 're working with young people and adults , and we see it click for them , " said Hatcher in an interview with Tech . Co . " When they realize that they can be problem solvers , use their hands , put things together , and have an impact in the world through technology , it 's extremely liberating for me because it 's liberating for the population that we serve . " Tech . Co 's own Tishin Donkersley caught up with Felecia at SXSW to talk with her about how diversity impacts the bottom line , founding Black Tech Week and learning to code .   Austin has a city motto of " Keep Austin Weird . " In that spirit , we asked Felecia about how she keeps it weird and authentic and in doing so stays true to herself .   Read more about diversity in tech here at Tech . Co . This SXSW video series is brought to you by .ME , which gives a truly personal tone to your domain name with its unforgettable meaning and word combination possibilities . Let .ME be the go to place for your online business or blog for people to learn about you . Learn more at www.stayweirdwith.me .