According to a Wall Street Journal Report , most VCs around the world follow a simple rule - for every ten startups that they invest in , three fail completely , while the next three somehow manage to return the original investment . It 's only between two and four startups that attain the profitability and give VCs the expected returns . Becoming one of those rare 20 percent startups that enjoy sustainable profitability is not an easy task . You need to work on many things simultaneously without wasting any time at all . In case you have just started your journey in the startup world and want to survive the initial grinding period , then make sure you focus on adding value to your users ' lives . This is the best way to achieve sustainable growth . Here are some of the tips that will help you do so : Entrepreneurial success is often associated with the amount of funding a startup receives . However , delivering core value can go a long way in facilitating startup success and has become one of the toughest jobs for an individual . As a founder , it 's your duty to set priorities and work accordingly . Many businesses fail to understand this point as they relate success directly with the funding and valuation . Do n't make this mistake . Be clear with your vision and work hard towards serving users with the help of world - class products and services . If you can do it successfully over a period of time , you will never have to think about valuation ever . Many startups are already following this approach and reaping amazing benefits . They 're adding value to people 's lives in a unique way without focusing on something that 's beyond control . You should also do the same for a long - term success . You can not simply sideline the user experience and expect to be successful in the market . Because having a website has become unavoidable for businesses , make sure you create a web property that can add value to users ' time . For that , you need to focus on two important aspects : graphical representation of your website , and the security measures . Start with selecting a good and light - weight theme , and then take the help of a custom logo design service provider . Believe it or not , but a good logo can be a huge game changer in the overall readership and user base your website will gain in the coming months . So , do n't fall prey to common designs ; go for the one that can get users ' attention in the first instance itself . Once you select a good design , you 'll see a dramatic change in user behavior on your website . People will start spending more time on your site and will be engaging with content more and more . The next step for you is to ensure that whatever information they enter on your website , like email addresses , login data , or credit card information , does n't get compromised . For this , you can take into account a couple of important points . The first and the most important of them is to select a well - known web host that carries a solid track record . Since web hosting is something you do n't change every day , it 's good to spend some extra time in the research and select a host that is widely known for its services . Once the web hosting part is over , the next step is to secure your website from unwanted hacking attempts . In case , you are not much of a technical person , then go for SSL certificates without any second thought and be free from all the security related concerns . To really facilitate startup growth , follow your customers everywhere they go , be it on the desktop devices , smartphones or tablets . Create multiple versions of your website that can run well on different devices . Doing so will enable you to serve your customers in an effective manner , and thereby grow faster than your competitors in the market . Read more about startup growth here on Tech . Co