The UK fintech sector must concentrate on Asian markets and nurturing homegrown talent if it is to maintain its position as a global leader for innovative fintech companies post - Brexit , according to the chancellor of the exchequer Philip Hammond . Speaking at the inaugural International Fintech Conference today at Old Billingsgate in London , the chancellor said : " We can not rest on our laurels , we must constantly move onward to remain the best place in the world to start and grow a tech business . We ca n't remain the number one place for fintech and the other technologies of the fourth industrial revolution by simply relying on our ingenuity , talent and openness , we have to go out and get the business . "   Hammond identified the UK 's time zone , talent , entrepreneurs , markets and the overarching regulatory and tax environment as being responsible for positioning the UK as the global fintech capital . He said the fintech sector must continue to " strive and graft and fight to seize opportunities " , particularly in the Asian market , if it is to maintain this position after Brexit . The government has already established fintech bridges with India , China , Korea and Singapore to help UK scale ups to expand into Asian markets . " If the UK is going to make the most of the freedoms it will have after leaving the European Union we have to build trade links with the fast - growing economies of Asia , " Hammond said . Access to the best talent from overseas is a key concern for the fintech sector post - Brexit . The chancellor attempted to calm these worries , while also reiterating a protectionist stance in regards to increasingly turning to British workers . He said : " While we need to continue to attract the brightest and the best from around the world to these shores , we must also do better at nurturing and developing the home - grown talent to drive our economy forward in the future . "   This includes the chancellor 's Spring Budget pledge to fund new ' T - Levels ' for 16 - 19 year olds . This will ensure , according to Hammond , that " we are producing the people with the skills and the aptitude to become the next wave of innovators , entrepreneurs and investors . " How this will play out is yet to be seen , but there is certainly cause for concern . With rollbacks of the H-1B visas -   so important to high - skilled tech workers - already occurring in the USA and Britain 's home secretary Amber Rudd confirming that free movement of labour would come to an end with Brexit , the tech startup sector is keen to see the government clarify its position over who it can and can not hire in the future . Taavet Hinrikus , CEO at six - year - old London fintech TransferWise , voiced the concerns of many startup founders when he took to the stage . An Estonian immigrant founder , Hinrikus employs a high number of workers originally from outside of the UK at its 100-strong office in Shoreditch . He believes that whether talent is " home - grown or immigrants does n't really matter , we just need the best talent . " " When we talk about home - grown people we need to instill a more entrepreneurial attitude , as well as development and engineering skills , " Hinrikus said . " When it comes to immigrants we need it to be easy to import talent , and make them feel happy and welcome . If London wants to cement its position as the fintech capital of the world the UK needs to take decisive action pretty quickly . "   Hinrikus reiterated that although he believes London was the best place to found a fintech company in 2011 , " if I was setting up TransferWise today I probably would not choose London . " He went on to talk about the ways other major technology and financial hubs , namely New York , Singapore , Paris , and Berlin , are already copying the UK blueprint for helping fintech companies to thrive , and how post - Brexit , these hubs will only become more attractive to new companies . " Over the last couple of years we have seen many other governments around the world look at the UK for inspiration when it comes to fintech , " he said . " Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery and other countries are looking to the UK and what the regulators are doing here and copying what Britain has done . They are looking at opening up access to faster payments , fintech accelerators , Project Innovate from the FCA ; all of these things are being copied from Abu Dhabi to Korea , to Singapore . "