As a leader , you have a lot on your plate all the time . But one of the most important things , if not the most important thing , is supporting your staff . Making sure your employees are happy is perhaps one of the most efficient ways of setting your startup up for success . We asked four entrepreneurs what great managers do for their employees so they can excel at their jobs . Check out their responses below and be prepared to make some changes to your strategy when it comes to showing your employees you care : One of the most common complaints I hear from other teams is that their managers simply do n't talk to them . They communicate when they hand down projects or tasks , but they 're often unreachable otherwise . A great manager will always be available when one of their staff has a question or concern , and they will always make an effort to reach out and ensure employees have everything they need to get the job done . - Steven Buchwald of Buchwald & Associates Great managers ensure that their employees are in the right positions . Pitchers need to be pitching , and catchers need to be catching . This sounds simple , but so often , employees are in positions that do n't allow them to fully utilize their strengths . Know what each of your employees greatest strengths are and leverage them to help the entire team excel . - Amy Pazahanick of Agape Ventures Listen to your employees . Listen for ideas and insights into culture and ways to improve your business . Listen for any hidden red flags and threats to your business . Then , remove any roadblocks , help resolve challenges and clear any unnecessary negative baggage that may be lying around . The best thing a good leader can do is encourage great energy and talent . - Arry Yu of GiftStarter Communication is key . Providing performance feedback helps employees continually improve . I hold monthly meetings with team members to assess projects and check - in with them . Often , some seek growth opportunities and want to take on new challenges or tasks . I place team members in positions based on their strengths , skill set , and passions , while also allowing for more growth opportunities along the way . - Angela Delmedico of Elev8 Consulting Group      FounderSociety is an invitation - only organization comprised of ambitious startup founders and business owners .      This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .   FounderSociety is an invitation - only organization comprised of ambitious startup founders and business owners . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .