The Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) of Nigeria 's ban on equity crowdfunding " is seriously slowing down " the introduction of crowdfunding in the country , says a new report . The Crowdfunding Potential for Nigeria report released last month by the Crowdfunding Hub , says crowdfunding has significant potential in the country , but that the SEC 's ban issued in August last year has stifled the setting up of crowdfunding platforms . The SEC believes that crowdfunding can not be effective in Nigeria for now because of a lack of rules . Donation and reward - based crowdfunding are however excluded from the SEC 's regulatory remit . This is despite a fast - evolving banking system which provides a promising infrastructure for crowdfunding in Nigeria , as well as a burgeoning entrepreneurial scene and a fast - growing population of 179 million . " To move forward , donation and reward - based crowdfunding should be fostered as a first step towards crowdfund investing , " says the report 's author Suzanne Wisse - Huiskes of MatchBox Consultancy . Wisse - Huiskes , who lived and worked in Nigeria between 2014 and 2016 , consulted with over 30 policy makers , NGOs , investors , and entrepreneurs in compiling the report . She pointed out in the report that these types of crowdfunding have successfully paved the way for equity crowdfunding in other regions . The report says the African continent accounted for about $ 83.2-million in crowdfunding in 2015 , with Nigeria accounting for between seven and eight million dollars of this . At the start of this year Nigeria had one equity based platform , Malaik , launched in 2015 . The landing page on its website asks those interested to leave their details to join a waiting list for the relaunch of the site . In addition as the beginning of this year Nigeria had three donations - based platforms , namely : Donate - ng.com , Naturad and Imeela . The report notes that the lack of patent laws is another concern . It discourages entrepreneurs to share their business ideas online . Wisse - Huiskes told Ventureburn that " to my knowledge , peer - to - peer lending platforms are also illegal " . " The legal provisions of crowdfunding are a big challenge to the organisation ( SEC ) . However , they are looking for ways to go about it so that companies will enjoy the benefits of crowdfunding in the country as well , " says Wisse - Huiskes , who adds that the SEC is looking at the crowdfunding rules in US and Canada in order to ensure an enabling legal and regulatory framework . She said equity crowdfunding could prove to be an expedient way for many struggling entrepreneurs to raise capital , since they are considered as high risk to banks . Derin Fagbure , a director of donations - based platform FundMyP , agreed , saying crowdfunding can help thousands of Nigerian business owners to access finance . She said business owners often battle to obtain finance from banks which are reluctant to advance small loans which they view as more likely to be defaulted upon . Those that approach the government for funding often have to battle bureaucratic procedures , she added . However Fagbure said scams on donation - based platforms are common , meaning crowdfunding platforms often have to battle to win the trust of the public by making them more aware of what crowdfunding platforms do . Attempts to get comment from the Securities and Exchange Commission by time of publication proved unsuccessful . " GET MONIE " get - rich - quick mentality is pervasive throughout Nigeria . Just look at how many Nigerians both believed in , gleefully embraced and then , fell victim to , the recent ' pyramid - selling ' MMM Ponzi scheme . Even large tranches of university students naively gambled away their entire semester school fees on that ' 419 ' scam . Nigeria is far from ready for sophisticated trust and belief funding arrangements such as crowd funding . Nigeria'a artful 419'ers would immediately sswoop upon crowd funding as a ' Candy Store ' playing field . The result would be a list as long as your leg ( longer than your arm ) of undelivered , dissappeared projects . It would be a veritable bloodbath of gullible scammed investors . The SEC , right now , recognises the state of the nation and is acting kind of like the Ministry Of Health , in giving early Financial Health education to the populace - whist setting out an immunisation and disease - control structure for what has been , for a very long time , a peculiarly - Nigerian pandemic scourge of Economic and Financial Criminology . Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Startup news , Startups , Venture capital