Although security applications have been around for a long time , data loss remains a serious threat to businesses online and offline . According to IBM 's 2016 Cost of Data Breach Study , the average cost of lost data was $ 221 in the U.S. 48 percent of these breaches were caused by hackers and criminal insiders . Human error , negligence , and system failures are also risk factors that could endanger the safety of your data . That said , you should never take cybersecurity lightly and set safety measures from within the workplace . Be proactive and aim for prevention rather than focus on recovery and cleanup procedures . Gaining your staff 's cooperation is the key to data loss prevention in your workplace . According to numerous studies , a high percentage of security breaches were caused by employee actions - criminal and unintentional . Regardless of motive , you need to train your employees about the best practices for data security . Make sure they know how to maintain a clean machine , browse safely online , keep strong passwords , and use VPNs to encrypt connections to your servers . More importantly , encourage them to report anything suspicious - whether in their devices or with a co - worker . Managing access privileges to your company 's sensitive information is the next step to proactive security . The general rule of thumb is to be smart and limit your employees ' access to only what they need to fulfill their tasks . If you allow employees to bring their devices to work , be sure to use a Mobile Device Management Platform and set boundaries to what they can access . Another strategy is to utilize multi - factor authentication in your password management solution . Doing so will elevate your workplace security with biometric identification such as voice recognition and fingerprint scanning . In the world of online security , zero - day attacks are among the most dangerous . These are vulnerabilities that hackers exploit before security companies are even aware of their existence . As your first line of defense , you can invest in a security infrastructure that leverages real - time data from crowd - sourced threat intelligence . While threat intelligence services are paid , they offer the best way to stay updated with the latest security threats . It might be pricey for startups that do n't have a lot of data to protect , but for established enterprises that care about their customers ' data , then the investment is definitely worth it . Although backing up your data is not exactly a proactive procedure , it 's better to have a failsafe in case of unforeseen disasters . Other than saving information on a physical hard drive , you can also leverage a remote backup service that lets you save your data on the cloud . Most remote backup services have automated features to make sure your company 's integrity remains intact . It 's also a good idea to have backup " fire drills " and test how quickly you can restore data with your current platform .