StratusCore CEO Denise Muyco . Photo via StratusCore .   StratusCore , a 5-year - old Seattle - based startup that helps digital content creators with cloud - based production technology , is finally coming out of stealth mode . The company has stayed quiet for the past several years but is now revealing details about its business and platform that is used by giants like Netflix , Sony , and more than 45,000 artists around the globe . StratusCore offers a full suite of digital production tools for content creators that need help with editing , rendering , transferring , managing , and storing large media files both in the company 's own private cloud and on top of services like AWS and Azure . The company prides itself on its technology that provides high security and low latency , particularly given the increasing amount of data and computation required for these processes . The platform is a one - stop shop for creatives , but also acts as an a la carte menu that allows users to pay on - demand for which services they need . Denise Muyco and David D'Andrea co - founded StratusCore in 2010 . Before the company launched , Muyco was in Vancouver , B.C. , where she was recruited by Steve Arnold to help run a media production studio that focused on rendering technology . Arnold is well - known in the media and entertainment world , having worked with George Lucas as an executive at Lucasfilm in the 1980s before being recruited by Bill Gates to lead a startup that Microsoft later acquired . Arnold then co - founded the George Lucas Educational Foundation and launched venture capital firm Polaris Partners in 1996 . Arnold originally set up the Vancouver studio to run like a co - op , but Muyco convinced him to turn it into an actual company which eventually evolved into StratusCore . With Arnold helping as an active advisor , the startup expanded beyond a rendering service into the full suite of products it offers today . " I have been observing StratusCore 's progress for six years , watching both the cloud applications evolve and the media and entertainment industry accept StratusCore 's platform as the new operating system for digital production , " Arnold said in a statement .   StratusCore is used by many small production companies and freelancers who are hired by giants like Sony and Netflix to help create shows , games , animations , and more . It also partners with content creation toolmakers like AutoDesk , The Foundry , NVIDIA , and Chaos Group to provide more options for users .     Muyco said that StratusCore separates itself from competitors because it offers such a wide range of services that are available on - demand and in the cloud , removing the need for customers to purchase expensive hardware or software licenses . It 's similar to the gaming cloud service that NVIDIA announced at CES earlier this month that essentially turns any PC or Mac into a high - powered gaming computer . " You can use as much or little of the services as you want , " Muyco noted . The CEO also said that StratusCore wants to take advantage of all the metadata it collects on different customers and projects to help optimize its platform . She envisions creating a marketplace almost like " an Expedia for digital production " that helps artists and studios figure out how to most efficiently produce content . " Overall it 's about getting people started with digital content creation and production with a low cost of entry , " Muyco said . The company is not revealing its angel investors or total funding , but it has " raised several million to date " and is exploring an official investment round during 2017 . Public SEC filings show more than $ 3.5 million raised since 2013 . StratusCore employs 20 people and is hiring for several positions at its offices in Seattle and Vancouver .