Getting on TV is the startup founder 's dream . Whether it 's a local news segment or a popular pitch competition show , having a natural marketing opportunity like TV is a great way to facilitate success . But do n't let an appearance on " Shark Tank " limit you to 15 minutes of fame . Use your TV appearance to create more opportunities for your business . We asked eight entrepreneurs how they were able to turn a TV appearance into a larger PR / branding opportunity . Check out what they had to say below and make sure they only shoot your good side : Use what you have going for you to get to a million different places . Talk about your experience . Leverage a large TV appearance to get a lot more press by answering questions that others have about that TV appearance . Others want to know what it 's like to be on ' Shark Tank , ' so teach them and help them get where you 've been . At the same time , it 's a great way to push your brand just a little bit more . - John Rampton of Due If your customers have seen you on ' Shark Tank ' or any other TV appearance , you instantly gain the star power that helps brands develop trust with their customers and new potential buyers . - Rob Fulton of the Rob Fulton Accelerator My cofounder and I leveraged ZinePak 's appearance on ' Shark Tank ' into coverage in dozens of outlets , including Inc. , Entrepreneur , Forbes and Billboard . We wrote first - person articles about our experiences , did video interviews and appeared on countless podcasts . If you have a major PR hook like national TV , do n't be shy about sending links around and offering to contribute to other outlets . - Brittany Hodak of ZinePak Short of saying : ' Go on tour , ' I think it would be a good idea to frequent places where your target audience would be . If that is n't possible , you can create an AMA on sites like Reddit , or inspire people 's curiosity about your experience on television . A lot of people want to be on TV , but very few actually go for it , so sharing your experience can be an ancillary media opportunity . - Cody McClain of SupportNinja Create many alternative methods for your constituents to view your appearance , including short , digestible clips from the show to feature on video sharing networks , a downloadable transcript , a slideshare and a social media highlights compilation via Storify . Place these prominently anywhere your organization has a digital presence , and refer to them in marketing docs and e - signatures . - Alexandra Levit of PeopleResults Your TV appearance is branding gold . Always mention it , whether in your bio on LinkedIn or during a pitch . Share the video clip on social media , and promote it to your partners and sales funnels through email and targeted ads . Being on a show such as ' Shark Tank ' is powerful . Aside from creating awareness , a TV appearance can give you a reason to talk to your network and build credibility . - Erik Huberman of Hawke Media Write articles offering advice to other entrepreneurs wanting to land on TV . We have a client who was featured on ' Shark Tank , ' and has used that experience to write dozens of articles chronicling his experience and offering advice to other hopefuls . People are intrigued by what it 's like to be on TV , and what advice you have for them . So offer something of value to readers and publications will be asking you to contribute . - Kelsey Meyer of Influence & Co. If you 've made it onto a TV show but you are n't widely known , make sure you are easily searchable online . If you do n't have a full - blown website for your company or product yet , set up a landing page with contact information if potential customers have questions or want to get in touch with you . Even if you are n't ready to launch and sell , you can start building your list for future sales . - Sydney Owen of W2O Group Young Entrepreneur Council ( YEC ) is an invite - only organization comprised of the world 's most promising young entrepreneurs . YEC members generate billions of dollars in revenue and have created tens of thousands of jobs . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .