Rob Whitehead ( left ) and Herman Narula ( right ) of Improbable . Improbable LONDON -- Improbable , a buzzy British startup that builds tech underpinning virtual reality worlds , has landed a $ 500 million ( PS389 million ) cash injection . The investment was led by Japanese firm Softbank and it 's a huge round of funding for a British startup . The cash is going towards tech development and hiring in its London HQ and San Francisco office , which it opened earlier this year . What does Improbable actually do ? Basically , it builds tech that does the heavy lifting required for huge simulations -- whether that 's online gaming or scientific research . This frees up the people using the virtual reality software to get on with the business of modelling whatever it is they want to model . " Today in computer science , people have mastered apps to build things for a single computer , " CEO Herman Narula previously told Business Insider . " And all the power of a single computer , people can use it to do really good things . But there 's this whole other wonderful set of problems that we want to solve -- like recreating whole cities , or creating beautiful virtual worlds for us to explore , or being able to recreate economies , or being able to model all the processes in company -- things that if we could do , we could do really great things . " Founded in 2012 , Improbable 's initial focus was on gaming -- but has since broadened its view to everything from science to defence . In late 2015 , it unveiled SpatialOS , an operating system for simulations , and launched a beta version in February 2017 . Narula says in a statement on Friday announcing the investment : " We believe that the next major phase in computing will be the emergence of large - scale virtual worlds which enrich human experience and change how we understand the real world . At Improbable we have spent the last few years building the foundational infrastructure for this vision . " There 's no word yet on exactly what this week 's $ 502 million ( PS390 million ) funding round values Improbable 's overall worth at . TechCrunch only reports that the company is worth more than $ 1 billion ( PS780 million ) and that Softbank 's investment is a minority stake in the company -- meaning it owns less than 50% of the company . The investment is an order of magnitude larger than any previous funding Improbable has taken . Its last publicised round was in March 2015 , when it brought in $ 20 million ( PS16 million ) , led by Silicon Valley venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz ( also known as a16z ) . a16z also contributed to this more recent round of funding , Improbable says , along with Horizons Ventures , another previous investor . By any standard , it 's a huge amount of cash for a British firm to raise . According to Bloomberg , it is the fifth - largest VC investment in the UK in the last 10 years . Tech startups with valuations of $ 1 billion are more are sometimes referred to as " unicorns " due to their rarity -- and Improbable has now been propelled into their ranks , alongside the likes of TransferWise and Funding Circle in the UK . In a statement , Softbank managing director Deep Nishar was ( predictably ) effusive . He said : " Improbable is building breakthrough technologies that are becoming vital and valuable platforms for the global gaming industry . " Beyond gaming , this new form of simulation on a massive scale has the potential to help us make better decisions about the world we live in . Improbable 's technology will help us explore disease , improve cities , understand economies and solve complex problems on a previously unimaginable scale . " Improbable says it has already done a proof - of - concept to recreate an unnamed British city , based on open - source map , traffic , gas and electricity , water and sewage , Internet and mobile connectivity data .