[ Updated 1:01pm , 5/19/2017 to correct the dry powder figure in the first paragraph , which was erroneously given as $ 41 billion . ] On the heels of a decade - high year in VC fundraising , 2017 remains strong . In PitchBooks 's latest funding report , we found that U.S. VCs raised 58 funds in the first quarter , to the tune of $ 7.9 billion . Add this to the $ 121 billion in dry powder that is already waiting to be deployed to the world 's most promising startups . Despite a shortage in VC - backed exits , investors continue to place bets on VC as it remains one of the asset classes where they can benefit from outsized performance . The allure of finding the next Silicon Valley unicorn such as Uber , Slack , or AirBnB is a powerful motivator . On a historical basis , VC funds have consistently outperformed all other fund types over three - year and five - year horizons - PE , debt funds , fund of funds , according to our data . In 2014 and 2015 , VC funds returned $ 119 billion to investors , which has since led to a large amount of reinvestment in the asset class . We also found that the median time to exit for VC - backed companies in the U.S. has crept to 8.2 years for an IPO and five years for acquisitions or buyouts , the highest levels recorded in the last decade . Many startups are opting to raise a down or flat round or find ways to lengthen their cash runway rather than go through a liquidity event . Take BuzzFeed as a perfect example of this trend . The unicorn startup secured $ 200 million in late stage financing late last year , valued at $ 1.7 billion and is reportedly aiming for $ 350 million in revenue this year . Also on this list are Houzz , Qualtrics , WeWork , Ola , and AirBnB , to name a few . This trend is creating a cyclical challenge for investors . They continue to fund late - stage companies , arming them with healthy cash reserves to stay private longer , which impacts their ability to generate returns for limited partners in a timely manner . Global VC contributions from 2012 through 2015 were the highest of any four - year period since 2002 , with nearly $ 175 billion paid in . But the returns distributed from these contributions are lagging . The latest global net cash flow reports we looked at show VCs still owe $ 12.8 billion to their investors - and that 's just to break even . The consequence of this is a level of illiquidity that limited partners had not planned for , which impacts expected and actual returns as well as fees paid . So , where does this " new normal " lead us ? At this point , it will be several years before the venture asset class will know if the " staying private longer but growing bigger " ( aka the Unicorn experiment ) is positive or negative for returns . In the meantime , investors must grapple with the bigger unanswered question of what the VC industry will look like if the expected fund lifetime stretches to 15 years ? That is , what are the return expectations on that duration of illiquidity ? How do fees get charged ? What happens to key man clauses ( 15 years is half a career ... ) etc . ? The trend of staying private longer will only continue , especially after watching the early challenges faced in the public market by unicorn companies like Facebook , Twitter , and more recently Snap . While staying private longer allows more time to establish profitability , waiting too long only increases pressure to maintain nearly impossible levels of growth , and market forces could shift making an exit unwise . It 's clear the VC industry is in the middle of a development phase , but how it will emerge on the other side remains a question mark . The stigma associated with early stage investors exiting in later stage rounds will soon become obsolete as the industry accepts it not as signaling risk but as a fiduciary duty by the early VCs . Limited partners and general partners are already thinking seriously about addressing more permanent capital structures . Adley Bowden is Vice President of Market Development and Analysis at PitchBook .