HBO 's Silicon Valley has been touted as one of the funniest shows on TV right now . However , Bay Area entrepreneurs and startup founders are quick to point out that the show is remarkably accurate when it comes its portrayal of the tech world . Founder disputes , tech pivots , and hostile takeovers are all integral parts of the series that were lifted from real life . But this time , real life is taking a page out of the Silicon Valley book . In last night 's episode , one of the characters revealed an app that , while it was supposed to be the " Shazam of food , " turned out to simply be an app that could identified if something was or was not a hot dog . Well , apparently , life imitates art a lot more than you might think , as the " Not Hotdog " app can now be found in the app store . Yes , really .   While figuring out whether or not something is a hot dog should be reserved for your eyes and your eyes only , the technology in this app could prove helpful in developing a " Shazam for Food " in the future . After all , if it can detect hot dogs , who knows what potential lies within those lines of code ! To make matters even more confusing , the actor who plays Jian - Yang , the creator of the app , appeared on Tech at Bloomberg to announce the launch of the undeniably real app to the world in true tech fashion . WATCH : @EmilyChangTV chats w/ Jian - Yang about his " Not Hotdog " app .   Download it today ( really ) : https://t.co/7N6a1Asfge # SiliconValleyHBO pic.twitter.com/99TBhaiHYk -- Tech At Bloomberg ( @TechAtBloomberg ) May 15 , 2017   In the golden age of television , it was only a matter of time before the tech community starting see the potential for innovative ideas . Was this just a marketing campaign to get the show more attention ? Almost certainly . However , it does open the door for more innovators , entrepreneurs , and startup founders to think to themselves , " Is a BatMobile a viable means of transportation and could I get it funded ? " Read more about new apps and startups here on Tech . Co Photo : Flickr / Keith Cooper