For first - time founders , there 's a lot of new territory to navigate . Pretty quickly , you need to figure out product - market fit , customer acquisition costs , and a realistic business model . You need to add to your team and make your first big hires . And you need to understand important legal matters like intellectual property , ownership percentage , and business structures .   In this article , we 'll cover the most common legal business structures , so you can understand which type might be right for your startup . Keep in mind that while this advice is based on my work with tens of thousands of companies over two decades , it 's general information . It 's not a substitute for the advice from an attorney or tax advisor who is familiar with the details of your particular situation .   The simplest business structure is the sole proprietorship ( when there 's only one owner ) or general partnership ( when there are two or more owners ) . If you never formally set up a business with the state , then you 're operating as a sole prop or partnership . This is a completely legit way to operate a business in the U.S. , but there 's a major downside .   As a sole proprietorship / general partnership , there 's no distinction between the owner(s ) and the business . This means that all of your personal assets are at risk should your business be sued or ca n't pay its bills . For many , this is too big a risk to take .   For those of you just out of school and sitting on more debt than assets , take note . You still should be concerned about personal liability , since settlements can actually last up to 22 years ... you need to think about protecting whatever assets you might have down the road .   Generally speaking , a sole proprietorship can work for some part - time freelancers or for those of you who are testing the waters in the very early stages . But , if you 're planning on delivering a product to a customer , you should be concerned about personal liability and should look at one of the formal business structures covered below .   The key benefit of the LLC is that it helps limit the personal liability of the owner , while keeping the corporate formalities to a minimum . As an LLC , you 'll typically be required to file an annual report each year with the state and make sure you keep your business and personal finances separate . As we 'll see below , the corporation has many more requirements . For tax considerations , the LLC can be treated as a pass - through entity : profits and losses are passed along and reported on the owner 's personal tax returns . If your LLC loses money during its first few years , you can apply your percentage of the loss to your personal return and reduce your personal taxes .   The one main downside of the LLC is that an LLC does n't have stock . You can give out membership stakes in the business . These ownership stakes are very similar to stock shares , except there are n't separate classes of membership stakes with the LLC .    Additionally , if you 're thinking about giving employees equity in the company , the LLC can be difficult . The problem is that members own 100% of the LLC at all times , so in order to give equity to someone new , an existing member will need to sell / give some of their ownership to the new member . This can make things much more complicated than just setting aside shares of stock with a corporation .   Like the LLC , the corporation separates the business owner from the business , helping to protect personal assets from liabilities of the company . But , there are quite a few key differences .   As a corporation , you will have to deal with many more bureaucratic requirements . For example , you 'll need to create a board of directors , hold an annual shareholder meeting , and document important decisions and actions in meeting minutes . An LLC typically does n't need to do any of this .   And unlike an LLC , a corporation 's profits / losses are n't passed along to the owner 's personal tax returns . The corporation itself pays taxes on its profits . If you 're planning on putting most of the company profits in your own wallet , this can create an issue : first , the corporation is taxed on the profits and then , you 'll be taxed personally when you distribute those profits to yourself . This is what we call " double taxation . "   You can elect S Corporation tax treatment with the IRS to have pass - through taxation like the LLC . But not everyone can qualify ; for example , all S corporation owners need to be residents of the U.S. and you ca n't have more than 100 shareholders .     You might be wondering if there are any advantages to forming a corporation . While a corporation is more complicated to manage and can potentially create a double taxation issue , there are some situations where it makes sense .   First , with a corporation , you can easily set aside shares of stock to distribute to future employees down the road . And from a taxation standpoint , the corporation makes sense when you want to keep money in the company . With the LLC and pass - through taxation , you 'll be taxed personally on your percentage of the business ' profits whether you actually see that money or it stays in the business .   And lastly , venture capitalists , accelerator programs , and anyone else that takes equity usually prefer companies to be corporations . This is because investors want to create preferred shares of stock ( which is n't possible with an LLC ) and it 's easier to calculate and distribute equity with a corporation . In addition , some VCs are actually restricted from investing in an LLC .   If you 're seriously pursuing or considering VC funding , then you may want to create a corporation for your startup . If you think VC funding may be years down the road , then you can start off as an LLC , keep the formalities to a minimum , and convert the LLC to a corporation when you need to .   The bottom line is take some time to understand the different structures and decide which is right for your startup . Most importantly , be sure to protect your personal and minimize the risk of your new venture .     Nellie Akalp is an entrepreneur , business expert , speaker , author , wife and mother to four . She is the founder & CEO of CorpNet.com , an online legal document filing service , where she helps entrepreneurs incorporate , form LLCs , file DBAs and keep their businesses in compliance . Nellie has been named a Top 100 Small Business Influencer by Small Business Trends the last five years and CorpNet.com has been recognized on the Inc. 5000 list of fastest - growing privately - held companies in America in 2015 and 2016 .  