South African - born Roelof Botha has been promoted to one of the three stewards of Sequoia Capital . Botha joins the stewardship along with current partners Doug Leone and Neil Shen . He takes over from Jim Goetz , who held the position for 13 years . Even though the position brings with it more responsibilities , Botha has been running the U.S. division of Sequoia Capital with Goetz since 2007 . Before joining the VC , Botha was the chief financial officer ( CFO ) at PayPal from 2000 to 2003 . He later sat on the board of directors for the likes of YouTube and Evernote , was a business partner in Instagram , and more . He is also on the board of directors at Unity Technology , a development technology primarily used to develop video games . Sequoia Capital is known for investments in high - profile U.S. tech companies , which include Apple , Dropbox , Electronics Arts , and Google . It also has investments in China , India , and Israel . One of the firm 's largest investments was in the instant messaging app , WhatsApp , of which it was the sole investor and invested US$ 60-million in the startup . During Facebook 's 2014 acquisition of WhatsApp ( valued at US$ 22-billion ) , Sequoia Capital made a US$ 3.5-billion return on the deal . Botha is the son of Roelof Botha , a long - time advisor to PWC , and grandson of former SA Foreign Minister , " Pik " Botha . Goetz wrote a letter to Sequoia Capital 's investors , which you can release below ( original source unknown ) : Subject : Time to pay it forward Disruption is at the heart of our business . It 's what creates opportunities for Sequoia entrepreneurs , and it 's what helps them produce extraordinary returns for our L.P.s . Ironically , it 's also the force that many venture capital firms resist , often contributing to their own decline . Sequoia is the exception . Over the past 45 years , starting with Don Valentine , Sequoia has embraced change as much within our partnership as outside it . That willingness to renew and reinvent -- often by empowering the less experienced among us -- has been the foundation of our success . I am deeply indebted to Doug and Sir Michael for the trust they placed in me , first as a Sequoia - backed entrepreneur , later as co - lead of the venture business , and more recently as a Sequoia Steward . Implicit in that arc is an obligation to pay it forward to the next generation . That time has come . During the coming week , I plan to step aside from my leadership responsibilities . I do so with great confidence in this next generation of leaders . They represent a gifted cohort who bleed Sequoia , and their fresh ideas will spur the next wave of reinvention . More to come on these well - deserved changes from Doug . To ensure a smooth transition and encourage change , I am going to decamp from the Menlo office for a few months . I will remain a GP in existing funds and continue to represent Sequoia on boards . When I return , I intend to sponsor new investments but I plan to reduce my workload , so that I can start saying " yes " to some of the other aspects of my life that have been on hold over the past twenty years . Forever grateful . JJG