The Valley of the Sun is well known for its tourist attractions , golf courses , nightlife and celebrity chefs . This metropolitan area is also experiencing a steady growth of entrepreneurial activity where the rays of the sun continue to shine on the thriving startup ecosystem . The startups within the Phoenix ecosystem will tell you that it 's a tight - knit community housing people who are willing to roll up their sleeves to help startups grow . They pride themselves on being one of the most welcoming cities to entrepreneurship and startups benefit more than anyone else . Between all the coworking spaces , nationally recognized incubators , student entrepreneurial programs , maker spaces , and startup events filled with a hidden pool of talent , there are plenty of opportunities to network and find your place to grow a business . Here are just a few of the startups you need to know in the desert . Focused on the food service industry , Attribytes helps suppliers and brokers get an inside look at how their product is viewed by a distributor 's point - of - sale system . Their product helps gather , clean , and maintain product data that is compliant with GS1 standards and helps ensure customers and their trading partners can easily exchange the best product content . With a passion to help patients catch the onset of cancer , this startup developed a medical diagnostic device that provides easy , accurate , and affordable blood tests for earlier cancer detection . Primary care physicians will be able to screen their patients with their point - of - care test within 10 minutes . With more health information being readily available to a patient , Catalytic Health Partners developed a personalized in - home , face - to - face , health management system . Each member is given a personalized tablet that provides educational health videos , access to telemedicine , and Bluetooth enabled tele - monitoring . For the health care provider , hospital , or social workers , the platform provides a continuation of care where anyone working with the patient will have an updated snapshot of their health . Managing your child 's internet activity is a constant challenge for parents . Clean Router helps parents manage devices and filter out inappropriate content with a 7-Layer IntelliFilter . The router logs all activity per device , offers time restrictions , email reports , blocks by keyword , and even filters YouTube . Get your child off the Xbox and have them go create their own game . CodaKid , founded by long time video game developer , designer , and architect David Dodge , who worked for studios like Sega of America , is an online kids coding academy and tech camp that teaches kids to create games , apps , and Minecraft mods using real programming languages and professional tools . CodaKid 's online classes are self - paced and include live support from a friendly team of engineers . The company has taught nearly 10,000 students to code in 15 countries and was the winner of 2017 Tillywig Brain Child Award for Educational Toys and Games .   With a passion to help businesses drive traffic to their company , FetchRev ( formerly LocBox ) helps drive trackable revenue and foot traffic with integrated marketing campaigns through email , Facebook , Facebook Ads , Google AdWords , and other social platforms from one dashboard . This startup has been funded by InterWest Partners , 500Startups , Foundation Capital , Google Ventures and angels from Google , LinkedIn , WalMartLabs , and Facebook . This management system is redefining the restaurant experience . The company designed this point - of - sale platform specifically for restaurants to help them track orders , review trends , connect with their customer , and turn over tables more efficiently . On the customer side , guests can use their smartphone to order , pay , and track their takeout orders from their favorite local restaurants . If they prefer an in - dining experience , users can order and pay for their meal from their table . Considering the fact that 60 percent of newborn babies diagnosed with jaundice , Neolight developed Skylife , an at - home neonatal phototherapy treatment that will provide the safest and most efficient treatment of infant jaundice . The company is developing a hypothermia treatment device to help at - risk infants with low birth weight . Selling your home is one of the biggest stressors to a family . Offerpad is a premium online service that helps homeowners sell their home with a few clicks of the mouse . When a seller submits a request for a price , the Offerpad team reviews the request and emails a cash offer . Once the offer is accepted , the owner can pick a close date between 5 to 90 days , sign off and done . Recently , this startup raised $ 260 million to scale their business and expand to other markets . Memory loss , challenges with problem solving , and confusion with time are just some of the early signs of Alzheimer 's . SMART Brain Aging is a healthcare tech company that offers an in - person ( Brain U Clinic ) and virtual exercise ( Brain U Online ) program designed to help patients delay or prevent the onset of cognitive decline . Podcasting is a great way to connect with an audience about topics interesting to you . ZCast is an app that allows users to create , stream , and share interactive podcasts . Users can easily record audio , chat with a live audience and tune in to live podcast streams . The platform also offers analytics , scheduling , and the ability to invite others to join in the conversation , all while sharing your favorite podcasts via social . Which one is your favorite startup in Phoenix ?    Vote on our poll !    This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESSis everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .    Read more about Startup Week happening in other cities here . Photo : Flickr / Kevin Dooley