French voters will return to the ballot box this Sunday to choose a new president in a second round of voting that will pit far - right Marine Le Pen against centrist Emmanuel Macron . Polls have shown Macron with a pretty steady 60 percent lead over Le Pen since the first round of voting made them the two finalists . While the campaign has been heated , and will likely remain so this week , Macron seems like a good bet to win . This means that Silicon Valley is likely to have a big fan in the next president of France . Macron is a former investment banker who served for about three years as Economics Minister under the current government . Before taking that gig , he took a monthlong holiday in California , much of it in Silicon Valley , where he met with local business and government leaders to discuss innovation . From the begining of his term as Economic Minister in 2014 , he made support for entrepreneurship a clear centerpiece of his agenda . The first time I saw him was at Le Web in 2014 . He had just replaced the previous Economics Minister , a man who had caused a stir when he blocked the acquisition of France 's Dailymotion by Yahoo . The feeling previously had been that protectionism was the best way to create jobs in France . But speaking at Le Web , Macron made it clear that he would have decided differently , and that allowing exits was critical to entrepreneurs and investors .   He also spent a fair bit of time discussing the need to embrace disruption , to embrace change and the future , rather than setting up barriers to resist it . " To be clear about the French momentum , we are accelerating , " he said on stage at the Le Web conference in December 2014 . " They key question for us is how to accelerate , and how to help create new businesses . ... My job is to be sure that in the coming years we create thousands of new businesses to replace the old ones . ... My job is to protect people and allow them to be innovative and take risks . " Macron became a big supporter of La French Tech , the program previously set in place to encourage and support startups and entrepreneurs in France . In 2015 and 2016 , he accompanied delegations of French startups to the Consumer Electronics Show to promote their prospects , and to demonstrate the change in attitude he argued was happening across France . Following the 2016 CES , he travelled to San Francisco to meet French entrepreneurs there , and then stopped for meetings at Apple and Google . " There is a cultural revolution in progress , that of the entrepreneurial force in France that the country needs , " he told French entrepreneurs in San Francisco . He said he wanted to change the culture in France , where there is a great fear of failing , but also a suspicion of people who want to be too successful : " That leaves little room to maneuver . " Indeed , Macron has built his campaign like a startup . He hired a political technology firm last year to help him research and interview thousands of French citizens to learn about their hopes and fears . Using his website , mobile apps , big data , and data visualization tools , he created En Marche ! , an independent political movement that offered a new centrist philosophy . Macron embraced trade , disruption , the European Union , immigration , and the need to support entrepreneurs with new programs . He has emerged as the clear favorite of France 's startup set . That platform also saw him finish first among 11 candidates in the first round of voting last month . With Macron in charge , Silicon Valley can expect a sympathetic ear , but not necessarily one that will accede to its every wish . In the past , for instance , Macron has supported Uber 's right to operate in France . But he has also been insistent that companies like Uber , Airbnb , and Google pay their fair share of taxes . That said , under Macron Silicon Valley can likely expect a warmer welcome than it has ever experienced in France . The question for France 's economy is whether that will encourage more U.S. tech firms and investors to plant a flag in Paris and give the country 's start ecosystem another shot of adrenaline .