Israel 's success as a startup nation can be attributed to the notion of " if you do n't have it , you either go without it or innovate , invent , and do better " . So says Carel De Wet , the general manager of cloud service vendor iCloudius . He was talking at Salesforce 's " What Western Cape 's Tech companies should learn from Tel Aviv 's Startup Nation " event , held at Workshop 17 in Cape Town today . " It 's not as if they have better technology than we do . It 's not that we do n't have the same resources or the skill ... We just need to take it to the next level , " says De Wet . He believes that a key reason Israel became such a successful entrepreneurial nation was because they stuck to their projected path . " In 2000 there was a study done by the Bank of Israel and they said that if the country does perfectly well , from their government , institutions , right through to their financing and their economy , they could potentially grow to a market of 750-billion Israeli shekels ( $ 207-billion ) which is about R3-trillion , " says De Wet . Israel , he said , went on to exceed this expectation by 37% . He attributed Israel 's success to the country sticking to the 15-year plan . Similarly he said South Africa and the Western Cape , in particular , should also focus on the long - term growth , by fostering startups . A key way to do so is to assist accelerators and incubators , he added . " One of the key parts ( Israel ) used were the accelerators and the incubators where they helped technology companies start up and that 's what 's happening in the Western Cape , " says De Wet . " Companies can start up , they have access to funding , skilled workers and they 're able to get into the incubators and accelerators and roll out a product in a much shorter time frame by using the expertise of international companies or experts . " Another condition attributed to the success of Israel is the attitude , says De Wet . " It 's their chutzpah . It 's not only having the belief but the persistence to push through with it , not giving up on the dream , not giving up on the belief on what you feel you must do to make this world and your company a better place . " He stressed the importance for startups to not just remain within the local market , but to branch out and find others internationally from which they can receive funding . " It 's very important that you 're not stuck in your own currencies and that you 're tapped into the wider world and the financing available to you . " Probably the biggest factor to Israel 's success is that startups have access to funding . " There are over one billion dollars available to them in VC funds so that they can start new businesses there 's always a market for them to take their great ideas and get funding in order to develop it , build it , market it and sell it , " says De Wet . For South African startups however he says the challenge is more access to funding . " There is funding available but how do you get access to it , what is it that you must do to make yourself as a startup attractive ? How do you get your hands on that money in order to be able to fund or grow your development strategy going forward . " He said Israel also benefited from the significant amount of investment that the government has made in education especially around science and engineering .