Running a startup is a great way to reduce expenses , tap into the global talent pool , and get things done a lot faster . A study conducted by Stanford reveals that work - from - home employees are generally happier , less stressed , and overall more productive than those working at the office . Remote businesses also have a positive impact on the environment . But in order to make a virtual business work , you need to use platforms that enable seamless collaboration despite the lack of face - to - face interactions . Rather than sifting through the hundreds of available products , we 've done the legwork for you . Here are the top ten platforms for cloud storage , team communication , and project management : It 's worth mentioning that the 2 GB space for free Dropbox accounts can be increased without spending a dime . This is done by enabling features , linking your social media accounts , referring other users , and a few other actions . Dropbox is also the only platform that features LAN syncing , which allows you to quickly share large files through a local network . Google Drive offers a generous , 15 GB storage space for free accounts . This should be enough for remote businesses without heavy data needs . Its key advantage is the integration with other Google products , including Google docs , sheets , and forms . It also integrates with Gmail , which makes file - sharing a lot easier . The third cloud storage platform may not offer anything new in terms of free storage space and premium plans . However , Microsoft OneDrive integrates straight into the Windows ecosystem - making it the most sensible option for virtual businesses using the OS . Slack is a popular online communication and file - sharing tool for remote teams . It allows you to organize conversations using channels , which ensures everyone stays on topic . Users can also share files and download the mobile app to stay ahead of conversations . It is perfect for businesses that require a lightweight and effective communication tool . Apart from messaging and file - sharing , HipChat also enables screen - sharing , video , and group chats . This allows remote teams to beat the distance barrier altogether and work as if they 're in the same office . Google Hangouts is here for the same reason as Google Drive . Since it integrates directly with your Google account , other services such as Gmail and Google Docs are always within reach . Voxer has a unique approach to team communication . By installing the mobile app , remote teams can use their phones like walkie - talkies - allowing users to broadcast voice , photo , and text messages to everyone else in real - time . Today , the simplest way to delegate tasks to remote employees is to create a Trello card , upload the details , set a deadline , and add the members in charge . The entire process is further simplified - thanks to Trello 's intuitive , drag - and - drop interface . Asana is a more comprehensive platform that lets you manage the finer details of projects . It allows you to segment your team members , create different dashboards , and organize everything through a visual , interactive calendar . Last but not least , Basecamp is a comprehensive project management platform that helps remote teams stay on the same page . Its key features include a to - do list , message boards for brainstorming , and campfires for real - time collaboration . The platform also offers " check - ins " , which automate the process of status meetings . To understand the core components of a virtual business , here is an infographic by Ooma on the most popular services and apps being used today :   Infographic courtesy : Ooma   