The events industry is growing all around the world . According to Meeting Professionals International , events contribute $ 115 billion to the United States gross domestic product ( GDP ) , with subsequent billions funneled to both state and federal tax revenue . The event industry is n't just growing in the U.S. , though -- it 's also getting bigger in nations like the U.K. , India and Japan . With that growth comes a need for technology that meets the consumers ' expectations and makes event production easier , and an influx of startups , entrepreneurs and venture capitalists are working together to develop solutions for the events industry . While this new technology makes a difference for eventgoers around the world , it is important to note how it changes the industry . Here are four of the most important updates : Mobile is taking every industry by storm , and the events industry is no exception . The first wave of mobile innovation has come with ticket buying systems . " Ticketing is increasingly about establishing a higher touch point with your fans -- it is about being made available to everyone , everywhere . " explains Neetu Bhatia , founder and CEO of Kyazoonga , a global online ticketing agency . Mobile ticketing also allows vendors to do a lot more . Bhatia explains , " Clients can access and manage the ticketing back - end in a much simpler fashion than the older terminal based systems - now anyone with a mobile smartphone can become a ticketing point - of - sale . " Consumers want have fully integrated mobile experiences during events , as well -- research shows that usage rates for mobile apps at some events can be as high as 94 percent . As a result , venues , promoters and planners need to partner with providers who can take their experiences mobile . The good news is that customer adoption is usually quick : Research from Guidebook found that 88 percent of event professionals agreed the use of event apps improved attendee engagement . A study from Enterprise Event Marketing found that the use of event technology can create a 20 percent increase in event attendance while reducing related costs by up to 30 percent . Even so , numerous studies also indicate that one of the biggest reasons events professionals do n't integrate new technologies is due to costs . Companies and vendors will need to work harder to compete in an increasingly cost - sensitive industry . " We consider ourselves net revenue generators on a client 's profit and loss . " Bhatia shares , " We do that by using predictive analytics to enable and drive purchase decisions and algorithms to enhance the in - seat experience with real - time notifications to motivate future purchases . " In the past , providers have tried to be low - cost solutions , but the future of the industry may require them to be no - cost or provide additional value . Big data is king in most industries , but its potential remains unrealized in the events industry . Event tech expert Mike Piddock shares , " Event tech that gathers data , both during live events and presentations , and dipping into social media profiles to understand event communities , will be a must have rather than a nice to have . " Technologies like scannable QR codes , much like the ones used for online ticketing , can help event professionals collect data from attendees that are actively scanning different objects at a live event . Near Field Communication ( NFC ) and other location - based tracking used by companies like Google also serve to deepen consumer insights from live events . Google already tracks and publishes data about high - traffic times at entertainment locations , and can easily zero in on more specific data about what kind of searches originate from a live event . Similarly , NFC - enabled phones could help event organizers track where users most frequently purchased concessions or merchandise , giving rise to the potential of split testing live marketing tactics . Though not yet mainstream , it 's important to note the trends that may have an impact on the industry in later years . The most likely development in the near term is cashless events . Mobile payments like Apple Pay and social payment platforms like Venmo are making the use of cash at events a thing of the past . This could significantly reduce costs for venues that have to deal with everything that comes along with cash management . Another shift may come in the use of VR technology . Virtual attendance has the potential to provide low - cost options for people who otherwise would n't be willing to spend money on tickets . Additionally , those people could have a view from the best seats in the house without damaging ticket sales in those areas . The industry is rapidly investing in new technologies , but factors like cost and concerns surrounding the way tech integration may impact event experience continue to prevent some professionals from trying new solutions . Bhatia shared , " The shift to mobile , emphasis on complete experiences over transactions , and in - venue cloud - based systems rather than terminal driven access are just some of the key trends that will shape the events industry . " For businesses working to gain bids with major events providers , the focus should remain on being a cost - effective partner while providing solutions that increase attendee engagement . For event organizers , the key will be assessing what technologies have the best return on investment , both in revenue generation and attendee satisfaction . Those that capitalize on the right technologies stand to gain a significant competitive advantage in the evolving event landscape . Sheila Eugenio is the founder and CEO of Media Mentions , a leading PR and digital marketing agency . Before founding Media Mentions , Eugenio has consulted with several mediums to large businesses on how to position their brand and ...