Drue Kataoka and Martina Welkhoff test out the interactive , virtual art . ( ConveneVR Photo )   ( Updated Thursday with details about UW 's acquisition of Zealyst ) . After selling her enterprise collaboration startup Zealyst to the University of Washington , Martina Welkhoff was thinking about her next move . The idea for a new kind of virtual reality company was just starting to form in her mind when she was presented with an opportunity she could n't pass up . It was December , two months after the UW deal closed and one month after the presidential election results took the nation by surprise . Welkhoff told her friend , Drue Kataoka , who happens to be a high - tech artist , about her idea to bring people together for virtual events . A week later , Kataoka told her she wanted to use the platform to create a piece of interactive political art . " It drastically accelerated my timeline for putting this out in the world but it was such a cool opportunity , so timely with everything that 's happening in the political arena , with social advocacy , that I really could n't pass it up , " said Welkhoff . On Thursday , ConveneVR ( in partnership with Kataoka ) will host its first event -- a gathering of female leaders from across the country held entirely in virtual reality . The women will wear VR headsets , and video of what they see and discuss will be streamed live online . Kataoka , who is known for her radical vision and use of cutting edge technology , is debuting a virtual reality " sculpture " during the event based on her existing work , " Now is the Time . " That piece , a print highlighting historic " firsts " for women , was popularized by the Hillary Clinton campaign . Kataoka featured the work at the Democratic National Convention . Kataoka transformed the two - dimensional image into a 20-foot , 3D virtual reality sculpture . The new piece is called " Yes ! Now is the Time . " Women attending the ConveneVR event will be able to walk around the piece and read historic firsts and future firsts for women . The piece is interactive . Anyone can add achievements from women in their lives on the " Yes ! Now is the Time " website . Even though her company is in its nascence , Welkhoff found the idea irresistible . Advancing women , particularly in industries where they 've historically faced barriers , is one of the reasons she got into VR in the first place . Welkhoff is president of Seattle Women in Technology and a vocal advocate for gender equity . She believes that VR has the potential to be more gender balanced than other industries because it 's a new frontier . " I think there 's a really interesting and unique opportunity in AR and VR to create something really different , " she said . " We 're not starting with a blank canvas , by any means , but there are n't the same kinds of legacy issues that come into play in a lot of other industry spaces . There 's a lot of energy in the world right now around building inclusive spaces , so I think there 's just a great window for building a different foundation and that could have a long - term , really exciting effect in what VR looks like in the next 10 , 20 years . " Welkhoff has been a fixture in the Seattle startup community for years . In addition to her outreach with organizations like Seattle Women in Tech and Up Global , she founded Zealyst in 2010 to help businesses strengthen relationships among their employees . In November , she sold the product to the University of Washington 's Center for Leadership and Strategic Thinking at the Foster School of Business . Terms of the deal were not disclosed . UW is using a modified version of Zealyst to help students collaborate with one another . It 's the first time the university has acquired intellectual property of this nature , according to Welkhoff . She is still serving in an advisory capacity for the UW 's Zealyst program but is now focused full - time on ConveneVR . Right now , ConveneVR 's is acting as a facilitator and organizer of virtual events . The startup is partnering with PlutoVR and BigBoxVR to provide the technology to pull off the " Yes ! Now is the Time " event . Eventually , ConveneVR will build an end - to - end product but Welkhoff thinks if she tried to do that today " the likelihood of failure would be high . " Welkhoff 's long - term strategy for ConveneVR goes beyond virtual events and social advocacy . She thinks corporations could use the product to replace conference calls and supplement business travel . It 's not an easy space to break into , as another Seattle VR startup learned . Earlier this month , venture - backed enterprise VR startup EnvelopVR abruptly shut down . The startup 's CEO told GeekWire the market just was n't ready for the kind of VR business products they were offering . " I think that 's a huge risk right now and it 's a big part of being early and being a pioneer in the space , " said Welkhoff . " I think we 're going to see a lot of that over the next few years , quite honestly . Everyone 's placing bets right now on what the market 's going to look like . How it 's going to develop over time . There 's a huge margin for error there , particularly as the world seems to be increasingly volatile , so it is concerning but I do n't think it 's a reason to stop taking those risks and to stop innovating . " The " Yes ! Now is the Time " live stream will be available here on Thursday , Jan. 26 , at 12:30 p.m. PST .