Connie Bourassa - Shaw and her replacement as Director of the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship , Rob Adams . ( UW Photo )   Rob Adams , a Seattle angel investor , startup mentor , and the former acquisitions manager for Cisco , will replace Connie Bourassa - Shaw as Director of the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship . Those are big shoes to fill : James Jiambalvo , Dean of the Foster School of Business , told GeekWire that Bourassa - Shaw has been the " heart and soul of the entrepreneurship program at Foster , " when she announced she would be stepping down as director in January . In addition to his work in the startup community , Adams is also currently teaching the Buerk Center 's " Creating a Company " course that Bourassa - Shaw pioneered . When she announced she would step down to spend a year in a part - time role leading the UW 's new Masters of Science in Entrepreneurship degree , before officially retiring , Bourassa - Shaw said she hoped to find a replacement who " loves students as much as I do . " Adams fits the bill , according to Jiambalvo . " Rob has 18 years of experience at Cisco where he worked on due diligence related to 73 tech acquisitions , " Jiambalvo said in a press release . " Since leaving Cisco , he 's been an advisor to startups in Seattle and the Bay Area , an angel investor , and a consultant to venture capital and private equity clients . Our priority for this position was to find someone who is well - connected in the Seattle entrepreneurial ecosystem , who loves working with students , and who can continue to expand entrepreneurship across the University of Washington . Rob 's that person . " Adams will take the helm at the Buerk Center in June . " I 'm grateful for this chance to build on the exceptional foundation that is the Buerk Center , constructed and nurtured by Connie , " Adams said in a statement . " I 'll do my best to continue and expand on that work , as entrepreneurship becomes increasingly important for students ' future successes , regardless of their chosen careers . "