How much do you know about keeping your data and information safe ? A new study from Pew Research Center finds that even amid high profile hacks on businesses and institutions that affect millions , many Americans do n't have a comprehensive understanding about what precautions need to be taken to prevent cybersecurity breaches . And perhaps it is unsurprising , but Pew says that " those with higher levels of education and younger internet users are more likely to answer cybersecurity questions correctly . " Of the 1,055 people polled in an online survey in June 2016 , 75 percent of adults were able to select the strongest password -- no words from the dictionary and is a combination of upper and lowercase letters , numbers and symbols -- from a list of four options . And 73 percent know that even if a public Wi - Fi network is password protected , you still should probably wait to pay off your credit card at home instead of in line for a coffee . Meanwhile , 54 percent of internet users could ID an example of a phishing attack , and 52 percent were correct in saying that that if you turn off your phone 's GPS function , the device can still be tracked . When it came to questions around encryption , the number of those who got the answers right decreased again . Forty - six percent accurately answered that email is not encrypted by default and that Wi - Fi traffic is n't encrypted by default on every wireless router . Additionally , 39 percent knew that internet service providers have access to their customers   search history even if they are in private browsing mode . And while two - factor authentication is often a first step in preventing breaches , only 10 percent of adults were able to choose the one example of a multi - factor authentication process . For the full survey results , you can head over to the Pew site and test your own knowledge with an interactive quiz that the center has made to accompany the results of the study . Nina Zipkin is a staff writer at Entrepreneur.com . She frequently covers media , tech , startups , culture and workplace trends .