Being a jack of all trades was n't always a good thing . In fact , if you take the time to finish the quote , it sounds decidedly less complimentary : " a jack of all trades and a master of none . " Ouch , that one has got to hurt . However , in the current entrepreneurial ecosystem , versatility could be the difference maker when it comes to building your business . While being a specialist can get you a bigger pay check , having a vast array of skills , experiences , and abilities can help facilitate entrepreneurial success . This versatility will not only allow you to better determine the value of partnerships , employees , and even capital , it will also give you the insight you need into every aspect of your burgeoning business . And if you think a specific college major or online class has pigeon - holed you , think again . " Smart businesspeople know that someone 's skills , and the ability to look beyond the conventional wisdom and innovate , is far more important than any degree or title or fancy business card , " said Lauren Maillian Bias , the founder and CEO of LMB Group in her new book . So what does being versatile mean in business ? Well , unsurprisingly , versatility takes a lot of forms when you 're running a startup . Whether it 's being a clear and efficient communicator , possessing the ability to self - motivate , or being reliable , you need to make this expansive skill set a priority if you really want to make a difference . This versatility trend in business is becoming more and more apparent as time goes on . While words like ' innovation ' and ' uniqueness ' used to be merely whispered in creative departments of smaller companies , they 're now prominently featured all around the world of business . And if you do n't believe us , take a look at some high - profile job applications . " The largest Fortune 500 companies today are including words like ' creative , ' ' innovative , ' and ' entrepreneurial ' in their position descriptions and job postings , " said Bias . " For these large companies , this is something new . " As far as how to be more versatile , an open mind can go a long way . Do n't write off experiences because they do n't fall within your niche . You never know what class , person , or trip could be the jumping off point for your success . So keep your options open , because success could be right around the corner . Read more about successful entrepreneurs here on Tech . Co