Sometimes innovation comes as a paradigm shifting idea , and sometimes it comes as a simple tweak or mutation of common practices . These 7 companies bring innovation in all shapes and sizes to the world of ecommerce . Any one of them could help you sell more products and improve your operations . Imagine what you could do with several ! Whether you 're new to the business or a sizable operation , these innovative ecommerce companies will help you crush ecommerce . To help with viewer bounces and abandonment , Granify tracks users ' micromovements across your site , and compares those micromovements with millions of others to predict what objection to purchasing is going through their mind . Before a viewer leaves your site , Granify triggers a message to handle their predicted objection , greatly improving your conversion rates in the process . Shoppable allows you to sell items on your site without needing inventory , which makes it a great tool for affiliates , influencers , and those trying to sell someone else 's products . You can even host the entire checkout process on your site using their Universal Shopping Cart . This improves the customer experience , and frankly makes it easier for you to sell . You can add your own products to Shoppable , or you can choose from 25,000,000 products already included in Shoppable 's marketplace without needing to collaborate with any brands . Movable Ink makes dynamic email marketing possible - and easy - for your brand . You create the structure ( email templates , campaigns , triggers ) using whichever email service you prefer , and Movable Ink takes care of the rest . The software tracks subscriber activity on your site , and then displays the most relevant content or offers for that particular person as they open the email . This " moment - of - open personalization " gives each viewer a unique and personal experience that 's proven to bring your brand higher conversion rates . Whiplash brings your store scalable fulfillment on - demand . For many , the biggest hurdle in ecommerce is n't getting viewers to bite . It 's getting inventory from point A to point B , and making sure the customer has a good experience . Whiplash makes this easy by integrating with your story and processing orders for you on - demand . Just get viewers to purchase , and they 'll take care of the rest , wherever your products might be manufactured or stored . This makes your job of running a store way easier , and helps you increase profits , too . RetentionGrid helps with customer retention . According to Harvard Business Review , it can cost anywhere from 5X to 25X more to get a new customer , and just a 5 percent increase in customer retention can boost profits by 25 - 95 percent . RetentionGrid segments customers and uses automated campaigns ( email , retargeting , etc . ) to keep them coming back . They 'll help you regain abandoned shoppers , and turn one - time buyers into loyal repeat customers . Stripe makes payment processing for your store super simple . They 're one of those rare unicorns , so large now that we 've forgotten how much they revolutionized the space . By placing developers first , they make it easy to process one - time customers and paying subscribers , whatever your platform . PriceWaiter helps your store convert comparison shoppers by enabling customers to negotiate the price . The software works with any ecommerce platform , and allows viewers to " make an offer " on items they might not want to pay full price for . You can automatically accept or reject their offer . Either way , this startup guarantees to increase your store 's conversion rates and , more importantly , to make you more money . Read more about ecommerce startups at Tech . Co .