Following the raising of a $ 5.3 million Series A round last September , social influencer startup Tribe has this week announced its launch into UK market , having secured a lineup of initial British clients . Three major brands have joined up , including department store Selfridges - which partnered with fellow Australian startup Mon Purse last year - alcohol brand Moet Hennessy , and personal health company Burt 's Bees . The brands have purchased over 100 pieces of content from content creators in the UK . Moet Hennessey 's UK Digital Marketing Manager , Greg McCann , said after hearing the success the brand 's Australian base has had with Tribe , they were quick to set up their own local campaign . " The results have been great , having received 99 submissions from talented content creators in just over a week , " he said . Launched by television personality Jules Lund in late 2015 , Tribe helps connect brands to " micro - influencers " or personalities on social media platforms such as Instagram , and pay them for bespoke marketing campaigns . Tribe 's CEO , Anthony Svirskis , said at the time of the raise that business had grown rapidly in the Australia despite only a short time in market , and felt ready to begin expanding overseas . " We reached a point pretty quickly since launch , and we 're not yet 12 months in the market , where we felt that our trajectory and the core numbers on the platform in the local market , were really strong , and understanding the space we 're in moves very quickly , we wanted to take what we have in Australia and go into new markets , " he said . Since launch , the startup stated it has connected over 2000 brands with 10,000 different influences , who have generated roughly 75,000 pieces of branded content across social media platforms . Speaking about the UK launch , Lund said the app 's time - saving potential and ability to harness a digital form of " word of mouth " marketing has been key to its success . " Word of mouth recommendations have always been the holy grail of marketing , and technology enables us to democratise the influencer marketplace . With the Tribe app , brands can now manage 100 micro influencers in the time it took to manually manage one , " he said . The startup 's success comes as it works through a crowded space . Also looking to harness the power of ' word of mouth ' marketing , last year saw social media influencer startups HooZu and HypeTap enter the market . Helmed by former Wallaby Lote Tuqiri , HooZu focuses on scouting out influencers for brands to market their product through . Meanwhile , Melbourne competitor HypeTap allows brands to search for influences and create briefs for them to work from . Another competitor is Visual Amplifiers ( VAMP ) , which last year brought on Todd Sampson as a non - executive director . Having opened offices in Singapore and Hong Kong earlier this year , VAMP is now seeking out an IPO .