Looking to get into the South African startup scene or catch up on some of your skills ? Well , you 've come to the right place . There are loads of competitions , networking sessions and workshops happening around South Africa and the rest of the continent ( namely Kenya , Nigeria and Ghana ) that we 've rounded up to make your life a bit easier . This article is part of a weekly series that highlights all the top startup competitions , networking sessions , workshops and conferences around South Africa , and the greater region . If you have any event recommendations for us to add to the list , or next week 's , please let us know in the comments below or send us an email . Not all of the events are free and some will require booking in advance . Please click on the event names to find out more information . Weekly Breakfast Networking Meeting This networking event hosted by Business Networking International ( BNI ) welcomes all entrepreneurs to join a group of 30 business owners to build stronger relationships and networks relating to their industries . The group however only caters for one person per industry . If your industry already has a representative , you will be referred to another chapter which has a vacancy . The breakfast is R130 and needs to be paid in advance for a seat to be secured . You will also be required to register for the event before you 're able to attend . Date : 19 April , 8:15am to 10 am Location : 144 Campground Road , Newlands , Cape Town FuckUp Nights Cape Town # sharethefailure Fuckup Nights celebrate the failures of entrepreneurs and the lessons they 've learned and new solutions they 've applied . Fuckup Nights feature many speakers who have seven minutes to present their story , which is followed up by a question and answers session . The speakers presenting are designer Kat van Duinen ; co - founders of Plan My Wedding Jason Newmark & Chelsea Evans ; the founder of Brand Rocket Stuart Shapiro and CEO and founder of Sponge Africa , Dayo Elegbe . Date : 19 April , 5:45pm to 8:45pm Location : Canterbury Club , 46A Canterbury St , Zonnebloem , Cape Town Silicon Cape Talk   Silicon Cape 's April TechTalk is on Serious Games . Meet some of the new startups in the space and hear from people who have been casually disrupting and moving way beyond gamification for a while . Date : 19 April , 6.00pm to 8.30pm Location : Workshop 17 , V&A Waterfront , 17 Dock Rd , Cape Town LaunchLab Talk Aspiring entrepreneurs and businessmen and women are invited to attend a talk on ' How to double your revenues every year for 5 years ' with guest speaker , Justin Coetzee from GoMetro . The talk will cover his entrepreneurial journey as well as what he learned along the way . Following the talk will be drinks and a networking session . Date : 20 April , 4:30pm to 5:30pm Location : Hammandshand Road , Stellenbosch , South Africa Cape Town Business Analysis Lean Coffee The Lean Coffee event is an agenda - less event which gives its participants the floor to choose the agenda as well as to constructively debate and explore it . There are only a limited amount of spots available . Date : 20 April , 5 pm to 8 pm Location : Bootleggers , 39 Regent Rd , Cape Town Pitch Night Pitch Night takes the form of a Shark Tank pitching competition to find the first SA Unicorn company . The competition is looking for five to 12 pre - venture companies to enter . Date : 20 April , 6 pm to late Location : 3rd - floor Bandwidth Barn , Woodstock Exchange , 66 - 68 Albert Road , Woodstock Exchange , Cape Town Business Networking The event is in the form of your standard networking event , however , the organisers are looking at entrepreneurs and businessmen and women in various industries to come together and create lasting networks . Date : 19 April , 7 am to 8:30am Location : The Street Cafe , 40 St Andrews Road , Johannesburg Business Expansion Breakfast for business owners This event , hosted by BNI , invites entrepreneurs to become members of the networking community . The chapter is only accepting one person per industry . This event is a paid event , R70 gets you tea / coffee and breakfast . Date : 19 April , 7:15am to 8:45am Location : Huddle Park , Club Street , Johannesburg Lean Coffee ! The Lean Coffee event is an agenda - less event which gives its participants the floor to choose the agenda as well as to constructively debate and explore it . There are only a limited amount of spots available . Date : 19 April , 7:30am Location : Father Coffee , The Zone , Rosebank , Johannesburg SMME Opportunity Roadshow   The roadshow will feature many insights on how entrepreneurs could handle their investments better as well as the various financial options available to them . Mentorship , collaboration and sharing information also plays a major role in the content of the roadshow . Date : 20 April , 8 am to 5 pm Location : Emperors Palace,64 Jones Rd , O.R. Tambo , Kempton Park Hacks4Africa The hackathon will allow young South Africans code and pitch their solutions that address issues around food access , security and agriculture . Date : 21 April , 5 pm to late Location : JoziHub , 44 Stanley Avenue , Johannesburg Small Business Imbizo The Imbizo invites all entrepreneurs , businessmen and women to attend the event to establish better networks , attain prospective clients as well as get their businesses out there via word of mouth . Date : 21 April , 9 am to 11 am Location : Cabanga Conference Centre , 252a Montrose Ave , Northriding , Randburg Fireside Chat with Annie Eimiakhena The fireside chat will feature Annie Eimiakhena , the director and recruitment consultant of Lohi Consulting . The chat will cover her career as well as some of her best and worst moments in the industry . Date : 21 April , 5 pm to 6 pm Location : Cranium One Office , 1 , Towry Close , off Idejo Street , Victoria Island , Lagos Have a startup event that you 'd like featured on next week 's event roundup ? Send us an email