When it comes to finding a sharehouse to move into , finding one that wo n't cost you a kidney for a room the size of a shoebox and bathroom you have to share with six other people can be an arduous task . Then there 's the task of making sure your housemates are n't potential serial killers - you can never quite tell . Essentially a Flatmates.com.au with video , Real Estate Tube aims to help people make faster and better choices when it comes to their living situation by helping them get more of a feel for their potential housemates and location than a simple static listing would do . The platform allows those looking for a room to upload a video showcasing their personality , and those with a spare room needing a housemate to showcase themselves and the property , with the accompanying listings detailing all the personal information and notes about the house and location . With over 25 years of experience in the real estate industry , cofounder Steve Makris originally came up with the idea as a solution to the problem of how to show properties to the overseas buyers interested in investing in Australian property . " I thought to myself that images really did n't do the properties justice , as they did n't allow potential buyers to see the size of the property and everything it entails . I also was looking for a solution to bypass language barriers , " he explained . " I decided to film the properties using my phone and email it to the buyers . Since that moment and our incorporation of real estate videos , the company has had such a positive response from the public that I knew we were onto something unique . " Development began in 2013 with seed funding from a " small handful " of investors , among them La Trobe University . With this , the startup was incubated at the University , working in collaboration with students from the Computer Sciences and Media and Communications faculties . One student , Isaac Suter , then joined as cofounder . The process of developing the platform was challenging , Makris said , as the team spent a lot of time designing and planning a number of features that users did n't end up finding worthwhile . " We had too many listing features that over - complicated the listing process , " he explained . The Real Estate Tube app allows users to easily record a video in - app or upload one they have created externally , then create a listing detailing other information about themselves or their property . Videos can also be uploaded on a browses , with those searching then able to contact the user if interested in learning more . According to Makris , over 50 percent of listings have been successful in placing people in sharehouses since the startup 's launch early last year . As one would expect , the startup 's plans extend beyond the sharehouse market , with Makris looking to bring the wider rental market onto the platform before incorporating residential and commercial sales across Australia and overseas . Listings are currently free to create , with the startup planning to incorporate fees when it expands beyond the sharehouse market . The platform comes along with a growing appetite for video not only across the internet , but in the real estate market . The likes of Domain and Realestate.com.au - which acquired Flatmates.com.au last year - have been looking at the development of virtual reality listings , allowing users to walk through a property on their own terms , and it will be interesting to see how Real Estate Tube fares when it expands beyond sharehouses . The immediate plans for the startup are growing its user base and in turn listings , with a view to raising funding to help expand overseas .