Messaging apps and company policies that allow employees to " bring - your - own - device " ( BYOD ) or work remotely can increase job satisfaction and boost productivity , but there 's a flip side to this flexibility : They could threaten business security . Changes to the corporate landscape have ushered in a new era of threats . Still , there 's one communications channel that reigns supreme : email . In its 2016 Internet Security Threat Report , Symantec estimates there were a staggering 190 billion emails in circulation during 2015 .   As long as email dominates corporate communications , we 'll continue to see cyber criminals orchestrating email attacks . You 'll need to familiarize yourself with the greatest risks if you hope to stay one step ahead of these threats .   Imagine one of your employees received an email from your Chief Technology Officer ( CTO ) , asking her to open and review an attached file . The email comes directly from the CTO 's email address , the body of the email addresses the employee directly , and there are no obvious signs that anything is awry . The employee opens the attached file and clicks on the link . Just like that , a cyber criminal has found a way into your servers . From that point , malware installations can compromise your company 's entire network . This is an example of a spear - phishing attack -- a more selective and sophisticated form of traditional phishing . The cyber criminal deceives the user through a personalized email tailored directly to the target . Unfortunately , criminals are getting better at their trade . They pull publicly available information from social media and company websites to learn more about their targets . Every bit of information helps them customize their malicious emails and make these messages appear more legitimate . These attacks will become only more difficult to detect . Encourage your employees to always think twice before clicking links or downloading materials . If they have any doubt about an email 's legitimacy , they should call the apparent sender to confirm . In this scenario , your employee receives an urgent email from his boss , requesting a large sum of money to pay for overdue administrative expenses . Again , the email appears to be legitimate . Your employee clicks the link to wire money . But this sense of urgency and personalized message have just made your employee a victim of another spear - phishing attack . Encourage your employees to remain vigilant about clicking on links , especially when the sender creates a sense of urgency in the message . Be wary of emails that suggest you must " act now . " Cyber criminals frequently tap into this vulnerability . Users also should keep an eye out for misspellings or slight differences in the sender 's domain . Again , the direct approach is best : Contact the sender offline to confirm the claims are valid . Spear - phishing attacks will continue to grow in sophistication , and they show no sign of slowing in numbers . According to the Anti - Phishing Working Group 's ( APWG ) Q1 2016 Phishing Activity Trends Report , there were more phishing attacks in the first quarter of 2016 than in any other three - month period since the organization began tracking data in 2004 . The organization also observed an overall 250 percent increase in the number of phishing websites from October 2015 to March 2016 . It 's critical for business owners and employees to take proactive measures . Email attacks will continue as long as businesses use email to communicate . Encouraging employee education and raising awareness empowers us all to play a role in preventing criminals from exploiting company or personal information .   Joe Ross is president and co - founder of CSID , a provider of global identity protection and fraud detection technologies for businesses , their employees and consumers . Ross is a member of the Young President 's Organization and also serve ...