Since it began in 1987 , South by Southwest has been one of the top conferences and festivals in the country , celebrating the convergence of the interactive , film , and music industries . At this Austin conference , you 'll find features , showcases , screenings , exhibitions , and a host of networking opportunities -- way more than any one person could hope to see . Your first trip to SXSW can be a whirlwind tour of excitement . With all the events , panels , and people to see , just thinking about planning such a trip can cause headaches . I should know . I 've experienced SXSW several times with my company as an exhibitor , Startup Village pitch competitor , Interactive Awards judge , panelist , mentor , and even party host . My team and I always go with just one mission in mind : have fun and make great connections . Here are some tips to ensure you 're prepared but still flexible enough to go with the flow : There are plenty of ways to get connected before you land in Austin for the event . If you have a badge , download the SXSW Social app for pre - networking . It allows you to search for other attendees and trade messages . You can also book and modify hotel reservations . The official SXSW app has calendar items , and you 'll want to sign up for Eventbrite or Google Calendar to track RSVPs and receive reminders for your preferred events , panels , and parties . Planning ahead is key , especially if you 're not from Austin . Familiarize yourself online with the venue locations , because they 're spread through several areas downtown . It may be a good idea to get to the city a day early just to explore . Look at the schedule early , as both official and unofficial events are happening all the time . Organize the events you 'd most like to attend based on your specific criteria and interests . And because it 's nearly impossible to anticipate what will be going on , double - booking yourself for panels and parties ensures you 'll always have a backup . As the event progresses , you might find new opportunities of interest , and there 's always the possibility that a session is at capacity and you 'll need a second option . The good news is that SXSW allows you to stream all their panels later . While you 're busy planning your next panel or racing to a fun event , it 's easy to get side - tracked and forget to eat . There are many great options and restaurants , and you should definitely pack a healthy snack to carry with you . The same goes for water . Keep a bottle on hand and refill at the water stations strategically placed throughout the convention center . For breakfast , if you have a badge , make sure to stop by the Java Monster breakfast lounge . Seriously , it 's amazing . And once the afternoon hits , there 's always an open bar somewhere . If you 're paying for alcohol at SXSW , you 're doing it wrong . SXSW is a massive event with so much going on . Do n't give into the fear of missing out . You 'll want to capture it all by snapping pics and updating your social media , but try to resist that temptation , and experience the event in person . It will give you a chance to network with those around you . Plus , it 's more courteous to engage with others rather than burying your face in a phone . There 's one thing you can expect from every SXSW , and that 's adventure . Nothing will go the way you planned , and every day is a new experience . So get out there and enjoy ! Photo : Flickr / Mike Boening Photography