Moment founder Marc Barros with some of the design prototypes for the next generation of iPhone cases and lenses his company is making . ( GeekWire Photo / Kurt Schlosser )   Marc Barros has spent three years building a team and a product and learning about his customer . Now , his Seattle - based startup Moment is ready to offer a second generation of lenses and cases to take mobile photography even further . With the launch of a new Kickstarter campaign today , Barros and the Moment team are looking to gauge how well they know their customer and get a read on the demand for a new trio of products for the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus . With a goal of $ 500,000 , the company is also after the necessary funding to make those products and have them on phones by May or June . It 's been a busy year of learning and adjusting for the small hardware maker . When we checked in with Barros last May , he had just raised $ 3 million in Series A funding and secured placement of Moment lenses and cases for the iPhone 6 in 50 Apple retail stores . Then came the tech giant 's radically redesigned 7 and 7 Plus . " You know it 's coming because the internet says its coming , but you get nothing as far as advanced notice , " Barros said of being prepared for a new iPhone . " So anyone that makes just phone cases basically has to cheat -- they have to gamble . They look at the pictures online and they make a decision : ' Am I willing to tool this thing ? Am I willing just to get really close ? ' " Barros believes that if stuff shows up right away on Amazon , for instance , that means that manufacturer gambled . " We ca n't [ gamble ] because the optical alignment is really , really important , " Barros said . " The camera moved in the 7 versus the 6 . So we could n't just make the lens and case ; we had to wait to get the phone . That 's the most trying part for us . Not only do we have to wait for them to announce it , you have to wait two or three weeks to get your hands on all of it . And then you have to assess if your entire product line works or if it 's obsolete . So it 's incredibly stressful . Thankfully the way they 're implementing it , both one lens and two lens , the whole [ Moment ] system still works . " Not starting from scratch certainly helps speed the process . The designers and engineers on Moment 's 20-person team hit the ground running last fall when iPhone 7 came out . " We 're better at the design process . We have more talent , more experience , " Barros said . " We 've been through a case once . You learn how the plastics mold , you learn a bunch of small details . By having a bunch of product out there you now have data back that tells you where it 's failing . " Barros said that a small hardware startup ca n't afford to endlessly prototype units like Apple or others can , so its early units end up being sold to customers . But he said this time around , with better suppliers and better experience , the engineering is much improved . This time they 'll be offering a new , slightly larger wide - angle lens with improved glass ( $ 99.99 ) ; a battery case ( with built - in DSLR - style shutter button ) that is constantly charging the phone and can be charged with an Apple lightning cable ( $ 99.99 ) ; and a thinner photo case ( without shutter ) that accepts lenses ( $ 29.99 ) . Backers on Kickstarter will get access to reduced prices on individual items as well as deals on photo kits that group items together . " The premise of the Kickstarter is to raise the money to tool , " Barros said . " To tool the wide [ angle lens ] , the battery case in two sizes , and the photo case in two sizes , the bill starts to get significant . You 're basically betting the entire company . You go to market without any understanding of whether customers care , you could bankrupt it . You need the customer demand . " Successful Kickstarter campaigns got the company and its first generation of products off the ground in the past . In January 2014 , a campaign for lenses raised $ 450,000 . A year later , a campaign for the iPhone 6 case raised $ 693,000 in January 2015 . Moment is relentlessly trying to get more customers . Barros said the operating mindset is to keep spending very tight , with low overhead , and focus on customer acquisition . " You just obsess about what works to get a customer -- what do customers want ? what do they like ? -- so we just spend all our time on the customer , " he said . Moment is " constantly tinkering " with shopping experiences , Barros said , and just started using Fulfillment by Amazon . But he said of everything they 've tried , content seems to be producing the greatest return . The company 's Momentist channel on its website serves as a gathering place for everything anyone might wish they could see and shoot through their smartphone camera . " We tried a bunch of community - based things , but at the end of the day we found that the content and the content stories go the furthest , " Barros said . " We have products that make it possible to tell amazing stories : rich video and stunning photos in unique places . So the content has been working the best to reach a whole bunch of new people . Each piece of content can get shared and re - shared , so you get anywhere from 5 to 10,000 to 15,000 views on a piece of content and that 's reaching a whole new audience . " But it 's clear that Barros is obsessed with wanting to know more about who is buying his products . While the wide lens is Moment 's most popular item , being on Amazon 's FBA for a few weeks has Barros realizing just how much the retail giant is driven by search . And he said people are searching much more for telephoto lenses than wide angle on Amazon . " Adding the Amazon piece is like adding a whole other channel with data , " Barros said . Selling lenses and cases through Apple stores last year was a nice way to get product in front of customers , but other than getting information back on how many units were sold , the experience provided no additional data on what type of customer was looking for what product . " If you make a software product or software app , you get some idea of the demographic of the user , " Barros said . " You can interact with the user , you can message them . You put the [ hardware ] product in a retail store you get zero . You get a spreadsheet with unit sales . " Barros is optimistic that Moment has figured out how to make something that mobile photographers want . But there is a risk involved in going back in front of potential customers to see if they 're still willing to help fund a product 's iteration . " If this tanks , if customers say they do n't want this , it forces us to go back to the board and figure out what happened , " Barros said . " Was the product wrong ? Was the price wrong ? Did people not care ? You want to know that now before you go to tooling . Because it would take almost the majority of our cash to put all of these in motion with zero customer demand . " But Barros believes , as he has from the start , that he 's onto something that will last because Moment is realizing what other manufacturers continue to ignore . " None of the phone accessory makers get it , " Barros said . " Those who make traditional phone cases and battery cases are essentially competing over the same functions : power , protection and price . None of them are saying , ' Oh , it 's actually a camera . ' That 's our point of view , that we think we can win the market with these products . "