The UK faces a conundrum in the coming years . We have to cut carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050 , yet our electricity demand is set to double by then . The Institution of Mechanical Engineers has predicted UK energy demand could outstrip supply within just a decade . While the energy market might be overshadowed by Brexit negotiations and global political turmoil , blackouts would inevitably plunge the UK into crisis .   But rather than being paralysed by fear , a handful of tech startups are getting to work . Their focus : ensuring we use the energy we generate a lot more efficiently .   An astonishing 54 percent of energy produced in the UK is wasted , according to the Association for Decentralised Energy . So how do we bring that number down ? One startup called Electron thinks it has found an elegant solution : blockchain . The benefits of blockchain in this space is that the distributed ledger technology allows all players to exist on one platform without handing power to any single entity . This creates transparency , provides a framework for collaboration and creates an immutable , time - stamped record of trades and switches between suppliers , according to Electron cofounder Joanna Hubbard . Electron has built two products on the Ethereum blockchain . The first is ' Demand Side Response ' trading ( which encourages sites to decrease energy use and sell excess energy back to the National Grid ) . The second is a service that makes it about 20 times faster for consumers to switch energy suppliers than current rates , thanks to a register Electron has built of all 53 million supply point meters in the UK ( which measure our energy consumption ) . It would let customers switch in two or three hours , rather than the current weeks or months . " Blockchain is a great way to unravel customers and companies in the energy space . We 're really trying to sell the benefits it can bring , " says Hubbard . " The idea is to be able to access all suppliers on one blockchain . The tricky thing is we need all of the suppliers to use it . We have to have everyone buying in . The government has been very supportive though , " she says . This reselling of energy - dubbed ' Demand Side Response ' or DSR - is the most cost and carbon efficient way to balance the grid , according to Electron , letting us make best use of existing renewable capacity . And Electron is not the only UK tech company working on this problem . A more established player , Open Energi , was started a decade ago by a ' mad inventor ' who had the idea that if every fridge in the UK could just be switched off for a few more minutes every day , it would save a vast amount of energy . This proved too hard to monetise , so the company refocused on the industrial sector - water , utilities and aggregate companies , plus retail ( Sainsbury 's is a client ) . " If there 's excess energy we pay the balance back to the National Grid ... some of these big utilities companies can essentially become energy suppliers , " technical director Michael Bironneau tells Techworld . Its technology , which consists of a small control panel used to increase or decrease electricity consumption , is installed at 500 sites across the UK . Say a chiller or air conditioner is designed to be between 18 and 20 degrees . If Open Energi detects there is surfeit of power on the grid , it can switch the chiller on . If there 's less power , it can switch it off - helping to smooth out demand and save the client money ( while also making our National Grid more efficient ) , he explains . This sort of DSR technology works for any sector with flexibility over energy consumption , Bironneau says . " We 're exploiting clients ' flexibility on their behalf . It acts as a revenue share - we are paid by the National Grid , and we share percentage of that revenue with the client , " he adds . While laudable , clearly these companies ca n't solve the UK 's energy crisis alone . It 's a problem that will need government leadership , plus funding and support . However what these startups do show is that technology will be a huge part of the solution to our energy conundrum . We just need the political will and imagination to solve it .