Coming off the curtails of CES , there is a clear indicator that 2017 will be the year of refinement in the technology world . Shaun Masavage , the CEO of Edge Tech Labs , a previous Startup of the Year contender , has decided this is the best path forward as they 've developed a new device that allows would - be musicians to learn how to play the guitar . The traditional learning approach is to find an instructor , learn to read tabs , and watch countless videos on YouTube . Unfortunately , this is a very slow process , and without the small wins , it 's easier to rack the guitar and let it collect dust . The newest way to learn how to play guitar involves an engaging and interactive system that throws students right into playing chords and music . Dubbed Fret Zeppelin , students can place a series of LED light strips that sit right above a guitar fret , and stretch down the entire neck of the guitar . For each string and each fret , an LED will indicate where a person should place their fingers , forming a chord . Alongside the hardware , a companion app will move a student step - by - step through chords to learn entire songs .   Fret Zeppelin is the third crowdfunding campaign for the company , with the first two being Android and Apple versions of their miniature Drinkmate breathalyzer both exceeded their goals . Five days into their current campaign , they have now exceeded the goal of $ 48,000 , and still have a remaining 23 days to go . Within 24 hours of the campaign 's launch , Fret Zeppelin also surpassed $ 15,000 .   " It was ultimately our desire to push the gas pedal on learning guitar that inspired our creation of Fret Zeppelin , " said Masavage . "   We know so many people within our community that have a desire to learn how to play , but do n't due to time constraints , cost of lessons , and the struggle to learn proper technique . Fret Zeppelin replaces frustration with a fun , digital training tool that sits right on the neck of a guitar . " Priced at $ 200 for a regular neck or $ 369 for dual necked guitars , Fret Zeppelin is expected to ship in October 2017 . To date , Edge Tech Labs has successfully funded and delivered two sets of products from crowdfunding in the past . Looking to get your startup noticed ? Apply to Tech . Co 's Startup of the Year competition and gain exposure from top investors , a potential spot in a nationally recognized accelerator and awesome funding opportunities . Apply here !