Andi Friedman is feeling " energised and excited " following a R16-million investment his startup Mobenzi received from Vumela Fund . Friedman said the Series - A funding served as a good recognition of all the hard work the company has done . He said the fund , which is managed by FNB and Edge Growth , took a significant minority stake in Mobenzi . The startup clinched the investment after taking part in one - on - one mentoring with accelerator and capital advisory firm Impact Amplifier . The accelerator provided the company with strategic support as well as other acceleration services . Mobenzi was founded in 2009 by Friedman and Pete Fowles . The two have developed a suite of products which include a range of flexible mobile apps and software - as - a - service ( SaaS ) platforms . This suit can rapidly be configured to apply to a variety of sectors . Mobenzi 's platform is aimed at those who work directly with customers and enables mobile interactions such as data collection and case management . The platform is also by nature , self - service while still providing a solid foundation for flexible turnkey solutions . An example of this is the Community Health Worker Service used in the Western Cape and the North West . " We are excited to have the Vumela Team on board . We are at a critical stage of our growth , and having a long - term partner , which can help us scale and is aligned with our social mission , is imperative , " said Friedman , earlier in a press release to Ventureburn . Impact Amplifier partner Maximilian Pichulik said Mobenzi will use the investment to help the company to build their suite of products and accelerate their expansion internationally . Pichulik said the accelerators was attracted by Mobenzi 's commercial scalability and the company 's strong focus and talented team . Edge Growth fund head Richard Rose added that the startup is an exciting addition to the fund 's investment portfolio . " Their software solutions will be a powerful enabler for job creation , and be globally competitive with the best out there . " Featured image : James Lee via Flickr ( CC 2.0 , resize )