Chinese ride - hailing giant Didi Chuxing is lending its data to authorities as part of a new initiative to ease traffic congestion . Earlier this year , Didi partnered with the traffic police department of Jinan , the capital of Eastern China 's Shandong province , which claims a population of more than 7 million . Jingshi Road is one of the most heavily congested thoroughfares in the city , and in March , as part of a trial to help get cars moving more quickly , the city installed smart traffic signals . These use sensors embedded on the road to help sync the traffic lights in accordance with the shifting volume of vehicles . However , feeding into this is a vast swathe of real - time road data provided by Didi , which analyzes its gargantuan army of drivers to see where traffic is moving and where it is likely to become congested . This helps inform the traffic signal cycles so the gaps between light changes are tweaked to cater to shifting patterns of vehicle movement . Above : Smart traffic signals positioned at an intersection on Jingshi Road According to data provided by Didi , delays caused by congestion during rush hour dropped nearly 11 percent . As a result of this initial trial , authorities are now working on installing more smart traffic signal systems throughout the city . Didi Chuxing was formed in 2015 following a merger between local rivals Didi Dache and Kuaidi Dache . Similar to Uber , Didi Chuxing offers smartphone - based car services , such as carpooling , taxis , and premium cars with drivers . Didi is the clear market leader in China , a fact that led Uber to merge its Chinese operations with Didi in a $ 30 billion deal last year . As part of its push to become a global player , Didi last week announced a whopping $ 5.5 billion funding round . However , China remains Didi 's primary focus for now , and at the end of April the company revealed a new program to work with city authorities to " resolve deteriorating traffic problems " by offering up a new traffic data platform , called Didi Traffic . This is currently being used by regulators in Shenzhen , Jinan , and Wuhan . A number of other big data initiatives have sprung up from e - taxi firms elsewhere in the world . Uber has previously partnered with cities such as Boston for projects that involve analyzing trip - level data , including date and time , pickup / drop - off locations , distance traveled , and duration . This data helps establish traffic patterns and informs decisions around road improvements and parking zones , among other infrastructure projects . Elsewhere , GPS data derived from a number of e - taxi platforms is being used to improve road conditions in developing countries . Last April , the Open Traffic pilot program launched in the Philippines to show how real - time data can improve traffic and road conditions , with the World Bank backing a new open - source platform that used anonymized GPS data from thousands of Grab drivers to establish congestion patterns and travel times . The program was later opened to include other e - taxi companies , including Easy Taxi and Le Taxi , which collectively operate across dozens of markets , and it was extended into new countries , including Brazil , Malaysia , and Colombia . Didi says that it clocks around 20 million ride requests each day , processing around 2,000 terabytes of data as result . That 's a colossal amount of information , and it 's proving to be a useful byproduct of the company 's ride - sharing service . Bike - sharing platforms have also risen to prominence in China as a consequence of heavy traffic . Back in March , bike - sharing startup Ofo raised $ 450 million , with Didi joining the funding frenzy , while competitor Mobike struck a deal with Tencent to bring bike sharing to WeChat users in China .