Almost a year after the Australian Securities Exchange ( ASX ) blocked its attempts to list , prompting discussions around startup IPOs , music streaming startup Guvera Limited has ceased operations , with founder and chief executive Claes Loberg departing .   Fairfax reported that shareholders were informed on Friday evening of the departure of Loberg and major investor Steve Porch from the board , with remaining cofounder and director Darren Herft calling on those interested in joining the board to step forward .   Founded in 2008 with ambitions to take on Pandora and Spotify , the Gold Coast startup 's streaming platform operated on a brand - funded model , and was looking to focus its efforts on emerging markets including India and Indonesia after finding little success locally .   Having raised $ 185 million in funding from over 3,000 investors , many self - managed super funds , since launch , the Guvera last year issued a prospectus stating it would be aiming to raise between $ 40 million and $ 100 through a float that would put its valuation at over $ 1 billion . This valuation confused many ; despite having 14 million users across 10 countries , the prospectus showed the startup had brought in just $ 1.2 million in revenue through the 2015 financial year , and lost $ 81 million . With the company haemorrhaging money , the float would be key to the company 's survival . The prospectus noted : " Should Guvera be unable to raise sufficient capital under the prospectus , there is a significant uncertainty whether Guvera will be able to continue as a going concern and therefore , whether it will be able to pay its debts as and when they fall due . "   Concern over the proposed listing grew in both the startup and wider community , with the Australian Shareholders ' Association director Geoffrey Bowd saying Guvera was a good example of how important is is for shareholders to carefully read offer documents in order to fully understand the risks associated with a business . " It is really concerning that a loss - making company which expects operating losses and negative operating cash flow to continue into the future may list on the ASX , particularly where its ongoing viability is dependent on the proceeds from the IPO , " he said .   With concerns mounting , the ASX blocked the listing , releasing a statement it had " exercised its discretion to refuse admission , based on material contained in Guvera 's application for admission " .   Following the failed float attempt , Guvera Limited put subsidiaries Guvera Australia and Guv Services into administration , while Guvera Employment also called in administrators in late March .   Loeberg reported in a note to shareholders in March that the company would be refocusing its efforts on a new business model , advertising tracking , powered through an app called DragonFli .   " Rather than us maintaining the expense we once had providing a full music streaming platform , we are outsourcing this to third party providers . All content will now be delivered only inside brand channels , and only at the request and expense of the brands using the content in separate deals with content owners , " Loeberg wrote .   According to the AFR , the company hoped this app would help it bring in the money necessary to help it meet the terms of a deed of company arrangement , with Guvera needing to pay the creditors of its subsidiaries $ 180,000 each month . To recoup funds for investors , Herft stated the company holds " valuable IP " which could be sold off or commercialised , and claimed the company was also owed $ 6 million in R&D tax credits .