Universite de Quebec a Montreal ( UQAM ) and its School of Management ( ESG UQAM ) , Tourisme Montreal and the City of Montreal have launched MT Lab , an incubator dedicated for tourism , culture and entertainment startups .   A joining of academic , entrepreneurial and municipal sectors , MT Lab has a mission to host fledgling entrepreneurs from Quebec , Canada and abroad in the tourism , transport , festivals , culture , hotel , restaurant and entertainment sectors . MT Lab plans to host its first cohort of approximately eight to 10 start - ups in various fields : technology , digital technology , artificial intelligence , fintech , virtual / augmented reality , new services , linked objects , usage innovation , collaborative and sustainable economy , etc . MT Lab is possible due to a financial contribution of $ 200,000 from the City of Montreal , originating from the Fonds de developpement des territoires , a program of the Ministere des Affaires municipales et de l'Occupation du territoire . Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre , said , " Montreal is a catalyst for entrepreneurial strengths , and the start - up ecosystem makes a significant contribution to the city 's economic activity . The MT Lab initiative participates in the sector 's burgeoning activity , while reinforcing Montreal 's draw by building on the innovative energy of young entrepreneurs . The incubator is part of our development strategy for an increasingly innovative and successful metropolis . " Tourism is a real economic engine in Montreal and Quebec , and MT Lab is helping to reinvent it , due in part to its partnership with Paris 's tourism incubator , Welcome City Lab . Yves Lalumiere , president and CEO of Tourisme Montreal , added , " One sure way to increase the number of tourists in our city and the quality of their experience is to increase and diversify the tourism offer . MT Lab will undoubtedly contribute to the reinvention of our offer with a view to positioning Montreal at the top of the list of cities to visit . " MT Lab will be located at UQAM , in the heart of the entertainment district , in the Pierre - Dansereau Science Complex . The incubator will offer start - ups a set of services , including conference areas , an open space for coworking with open access and mentoring . " A fine example of a university contribution to the vitality of its community , MT Lab will make the advanced expertise of UQAM and its School of Management available to start - ups , to foster innovation in key sectors of the Montreal economy , " said UQAM rector , Robert Proulx . The start - ups supported by MT Lab will benefit from an environment dedicated to entrepreneurship as well as tourism and innovation observatories , in addition to privileged access to the business networks of several incubator partners , who will be announced shortly . " ESG has placed entrepreneurship at the heart of its mission . This tourism enterprise incubator will play a role in the development of Quebec 's economy to which ESG is proud to contribute , " added Stephane Pallage , dean of ESG UQAM . The call for applications from young businesses is currently underway and will run until May 5 .   