Your boss is an idiot and you 're looking for something new ? Each week we 're introducing you to some great career opportunities in the startup space . This is your chance to join one of Europe 's most promising startups . Check out our job board for startup jobs to get a complete overview on the 80 + open postitions there . And without further ado here are the startup jobs of the week : Dealini.ch is a creative agency with a heavy tech focus . Its focus is on converting offline contacts to online customers through apps , websites and even interactive applications on big touchscreens . Join the Zurich - based team now as a Senior Python Developer . Project A is an operational VC that provides its ventures with capital , an extensive network and exclusive access to a wide range of operational expertise . Join the Berlin - based investment firm now as a Customer Success Agent , a Data Engineer or a Communications Manager . Belgium - based Xpenditure is changing the way people manage their expenses . It helps you get rid of Excel sheets and shoeboxes filled with receipts . Join the promising company now as Customer Success Engineer , Online Account Executive or Sales Development Representative . Wimdu aims to turn private , home - grown rentals into an easy to use global norm . By connecting guests and hosts worldwide , Wimdu believes in making quality travel experiences more accessible to everyone . Join the Berlin - based company now as Site Reliability Engineer . The Berlin - based mobile user acquisition ad - technology company IconPeak is a specialist in mobile advertising . The startup helps leading international brands , from a wide range of verticals acquire quality users for their mobile apps . Jon IconPeak now as Account Manager . By the way : If you 're a startup CEO and also looking for some rockstar employees for your company , make sure to publish a job opening with us now . While basic job ads are free , a premium job ad ( for just EUR69 ) provides you with the following advantages :