It 's no secret that Silicon Valley is saturated with formidable tech startups . The tech hub has attracted investors , built a thriving community , and spawned innovative concepts and ideas popular around the world . As competitive an environment as it is , startup disruption also fosters support structures for founders and improves the local economy . In 2015 , Silicon Valley experienced a job growth bump of 4.3 percent , its highest since 2000 , just one year before the bursting of the dot - com bubble . The Bay Area is n't just a haven for tech 's most experienced and creative minds , it also provides fertile ground for startup founders to build a support system . Despite its success , Silicon Valley can be rough on new entrepreneurs choosing to dive in headfirst . Market entrants daring enough to enter need to be incredibly sharp and show a willingness to learn and pivot at a moment 's notice . For some , the beauty of Silicon Valley is its ecosystem of thriving networks offering unique resources for those willing to exploit them . Here 's how to ingrain yourself into that network : A study conducted by National Networking Statistics shows that 87 percent of executives network two to three times a week , which sparks a 90 percent increase in business opportunities . Ask your connections for introductions , and ask colleagues about any new ideas they might have to help spark growth . Like - minded people meet regularly in hopes of collecting advice to advance tech knowledge and build businesses . For example , the March Silicon Valley Organization calendar features the San Jose Power Lunch , a networking mixer for the Silicon Valley Young Professionals and literally dozens of tech meetups occur in the Bay Area on any given evening . Investors often populate networking events and are willing to chat with founders . The appropriately named Access to Silicon Valley brings together entrepreneurs , venture capitalists , founders , and industry experts armed with the contacts and cash to make waves . Afraid to open your idea to the masses because it might be stolen ? You 're not alone , but do n't let that scare you away from sharing your ideas . Offer up new concepts for discussion to increase your appeal . Take the risk , because the ultimate reward could be well worth it . Access to other founders means access to knowledge , which includes learning from the mistakes of others . Groups like Founders Network allow you to become part of a collective knowledge base . This last one is a given . In order to facilitate a lucrative network , you need to hang out in co - working spaces , grab a coffee , mingle with co - workers , and learn what 's new in the tech world from your peers rather than online articles . Workers thrive in co - working spaces at a high level of success because of the open environment and feelings of job control , according to the Harvard Business Review . These areas are designed to be conducive to mutual conceptualization and creativity . Sure , strong startup ecosystems are growing in nontraditional cities like Seattle and Austin , but the resources and support systems of Silicon Valley are hard to beat .