People often ask me , " Why did you move from San Francisco to , uh , Detroit ? " The answer is easy . In 10 years , San Francisco will be as good as it is today , but Detroit will be a roaring city once again , defining a new technology hub at the intersection of steel and bits . When choosing to move to Detroit , a city that has been in a recent state of rebuild , many do so to roll up their sleeves , get to work , and make a difference . These attributes are what 's needed in an entrepreneur , which makes the city 's vibe appealing to early stage startups . When entrepreneurs make the pilgrimage to San Francisco to change the world with their ideas , they do so for the vast amount of resources present in the Valley . Detroit , too , has immense resources at an entrepreneur 's disposal , but to build and scale in Detroit is to build and scale Detroit itself - something you can no longer do in the Valley . And this is the reason I packed up and left San Francisco for Detroit in October of 2011 . I wanted to take part in the emerging entrepreneurial gold rush in Detroit . I wanted to help fuel the startup renaissance and create a legacy . And over the last six years , I 've seen the seeds of entrepreneurship blossom into a growing and thriving ecosystem . ( Check out the documentary Generation Startup to see what it is like to build a startup in Detroit . ) The cost of living and doing business in Detroit is much lower than in coastal hubs like San Francisco and New York . You can hire a recent computer science graduate for $ 60 K vs. $ 120 K on the coasts . According to Numbeo , the cost of living in San Francisco is 93 percent higher than in Detroit . Your employees can afford a wonderful house in a great neighborhood , live in an amazing school district , and not break the bank . Not something you could do easily in San Francisco or New York . But across metro Detroit , you can . And that means more money to hire and scale your company . Your employees can raise a family and still live on an early stage startup salary . And your venture capital investors can see higher returns as a result of less capital needed to scale the business . Detroit has a great talent network spanning universities , Fortune 500 companies , and business titans . Google got its seed funding as research out of the University of Michigan . A high percentage of the top venture capitalists in the United States have taken Professor David Brophy 's classes on venture capital . With 75 percent of the US automotive industry R&D investment located in Michigan , the future of self - driving cars will be built and tested across Detroit . New facilities like Mcity and the American Center for Mobility will support testing and validation of autonomous vehicles . And business titans that call Detroit home include Dan Gilbert , Roger Penske , Chris Ilitch , and Bill Ford . There 's a hidden diamond in the Midwest that contains an economy larger than California . Chicago to Detroit , down through Cleveland to Pittsburgh , bending through Columbus to Cincinnati , and coming full circle through Indianapolis back to Chicago .   Image source : The Diamond in the Midwest Within this map , there is a significant intersection of talent and business : And if Drive Capital 's Chris Olson is right , in five years , the Midwest will have more startups than Silicon Valley . Three years ago , Techstars Mobility launched in Detroit . Since then , we 've seen many startups relocate or open up shop in Detroit to tap into the automotive dominance of the region . SPLT and Lunar , part of the 2015 class of Techstars Mobility , both relocated from NYC to Detroit . Together they now employ over 40 individuals in the city 's downtown . And Oblong , PolySync , and Mapbox all opened offices operating out of the Techstars office . According to the 2017 Michigan Venture Capital Association Research Report , there are 141 active venture - backed startups across Michigan . Some hot sectors include fintech ( e.g. , Benzinga in Detroit ) , life science / healthcare ( e.g. , Millendo Therapeutics in Ann Arbor ) , and security ( Duo Security also in Ann Arbor ) . Higher growth startups include Rocket Fiber that provides gigabit internet and Shinola that is bringing back manufacturing to Detroit . Midtown is the most welcoming to the startup community . With lower cost , incredible food and drink , and university access , this area has it all . Anchoring Midtown is Wayne State University , the third largest university in Michigan . Nearby is TechTown , a non - profit business accelerator , and Next Energy , one of the first research pavilions in the nation to offer access to a smart microgrid and a smart home . A few blocks away is Green Garage , a supportive , sustainable co - working space , which was formerly a showroom for Model T automobiles in the 1920s . Midtown is also where Techstars Mobility partnered with Foundry Group to provide a house for free to founders building their startups in Detroit . Startups also call downtown home too . WeWork Detroit and Bamboo Detroit offer founders plenty of space to build their businesses . The Madison Block ( one of seven tech hubs sponsored by Google for Entrepreneurs ) is home to a dozen startups and venture capital funds , including Ludlow Ventures , Detroit Venture Partners , Draper Triangle , Microsoft Ventures , and Twitter . On the rise is also Eastern Market , home to the United State 's largest open - air market . Lots of great lofts are occupied by a growing number of startups . Many founders are known to frequent Avalon International Breads , The Bottom Line Coffee House , Motor City Brewing , and the Jolly Pumpkin , all in Midtown . If you 're looking to run into an investor or corporate exec , you might want to check out the Sugar House , home to the best cocktail in America , Selden Standard , a seasonal American restaurant , Chartreuse , voted best restaurant in Detroit , or Green Dot Stables , where everything on the menu is $ 3 ( a personal favorite , where bills shock my coastal friends ) . Detroit Startup Week , a week of free entrepreneurial - focused panels and networking events in May , is a great place to meet with people in the startup community . In fact , Lunar hired 2 people from the 2016 Detroit Startup Week . Also in May is the Michigan Growth Capital Symposium , which is heading into its 36th year , attracting 100s of investors and startups . Every fall is the annual Techstars Mobility Demo Day which draws 1000 + attendees as the largest single day startup event in Michigan . Whether you decide to come to Detroit for 36 hours ( great post on the NYTimes on doing so ) or eventually call it home , the city and region is rapidly growing . New early stage startups are popping up at an increasing rate , music is flourishing in Detroit - Jack White just opened his new Third Man Records storefront in Midtown - and new restaurants , shops , and art are opening up every day ( like Warby Parker , Bonobos , Nike , and Under Armour ) . Building something in Detroit is building Detroit . Special thanks to Hunter , Rohith , David , Chris , and Lisa for reviewing drafts of this article . Ted Serbinski is Managing Director of Techstars Mobility .  