New Zealand financial literacy startup Banqer has expanded into Australia , bagging a partnership with financial services provider Netwealth that will see 15,000 students across the country receive free access to the platform . Born out of a Startup Weekend in Wellington in 2014 , Banqer is an online banking system that works alongside the usual day in the classroom . Using fictional currency , students can earn for completing classroom jobs or offering services to other kids , track spending on the likes of classroom wifi , and pay tax , while teachers can trigger things like interest rate rises or virtual earthquakes to teach students about the benefits of insurance , for example . The platform is being used by more than 20,000 students across 450 schools in New Zealand , its reach expanding in part thanks to the startup last year partnering with Kiwibank ; the bank funded the rollout of the platform to over 1,000 new classrooms across the country . With Netwealth to work with Banqer in a similar fashion in Australia , joint managing director Matt Heine said that as the company seeks to enable , educate , and inspire people to see wealth differently , Banqer is a good opportunity to start kids on this journey . " We all want a brighter future for our kids , and that means making sure programs like Banqer get into our schools so kids can learn in a practical way , lifelong concepts about money . We are very proud to have brought this program to Australian kids , " he said . " All kids deserve a great start to life and being financially literate , being confident and curious , is a huge step towards this goal . " Access to the platform costs schools $ 2 per student per term ; with over two million primary school students in Australia , the startup has a $ 16 million - a - year opportunity locally . With a number of Australian schools already signed on , cofounder and CEO Kendall Flutey will be spending much of 2017 in Australia to onboard more before looking to the US . The startup already has a number of classrooms onboard in the UK , South Africa , Canada . " Financial illiteracy is a global problem so we need to be a global solution . I 'm a firm believer that when it comes to money ; knowledge is power . Banqer 's aim is to arm young people with the skills they need to make smart and informed financial choices as adults , " she said . " If we do that , we think we 'll make strong in - roads at reducing inequality , crippling debt , and poverty in New Zealand and around the world . "