After years of experimenting with 3D - printed footwear , Adidas on Friday announced that its first mass - produced 3D - printed shoe , the Futurecraft 4D , will go on sale this fall . The shoe 's sole is shaped using digital light projection , a technology you might be familiar with if you shopped for a rear - projection TV 20 years ago . Despite rear - projection 's demise , the technique is still alive in the 3D printing industry : it projects patterned light onto a liquid photopolymer resin , shaping and hardening it into layers . To make the Futurecraft 4D 's sole , Adidas partnered with the Silicon Valley startup Carbon , which says that its digital light synthesis technique is more efficient than ordinary 3D printing , and thus better - suited to making large quantities of durable goods . According to Texas Instruments , which originally developed the digital light processing concept in the 1980s , it 's now used to quickly print everything from prototypes , jewelry casting , custom medical implants and complex automotive and aerospace components . In Adidas 's case , digital light synthesis results in a sole that works just as well as one made in an injection mold and has similar costs and production times . The company plans to sell 5,000 of the Futurecraft 4D this fall , and an additional 10,000 next year . Pricing hasn't been announced yet ; Reuters reports that the shoes will sell at an " unspecified premium price , " but Adidas plans to lower the cost as the technology develops . Despite the benefits that 3D printing promises to bring to shoe design and manufacturing , it has been a gradual development process for Adidas and its competitors , at least compared to the consumer tech lifecycle . In 2013 , New Balance became the first athletic brand to have a track athlete -- middle distance runner Jack Bolas -- compete in 3D - printed spike plates . But it was n't until three years later that the company managed to sell a 3D - printed shoe to the public in the form of a limited - edition $ 400 sneaker . Adidas , meanwhile , unveiled the Futurecraft 4D 's predecessor as a concept shoe in 2015 . It used thermoplastic polyurethane instead of resin shaped by digital light projection . Tom is PCMag 's San Francisco - based news reporter .  