Time kills all deals and there 's one sure fire way to slow a deal down : not having a data room ready for investors when you approach them . In my time with both Transition Level Investments ( Steve Baxter 's startup investment portfolio ) and Full Circle VC , I 've noticed that there is one thing that most efficient and enjoyable deals have in common : a well - structured data room that has been prepared in advance of fundraising meetings . A data room ( or deal room ) is simply a collation of documents to help a counter - party , such as a potential investor or acquirer , get an understanding of your business and satisfy their due diligence . Why you need to be thinking about a data room from the very start Having a data room prepared in advance of any fundraising discussions will help you regardless of what stage you 're at in your startup . There are three main benefits this will bring to your startup : Time Approaching an investor without this information at the ready will cost you precious time while you scramble to put things together . It 's often the case that companies who haven't prepared a data room prior to a raise are disorganised in other respects of their business . For example , when a data room does n't exist and we send our due diligence checklist , we find they 'll often have overdue tax lodgements , and unsigned IP assignments and shareholders ' agreements that then need to be rectified . Not only does it show poor form on the part of the company - it means that the investment will be delayed while these issues are rectified . Preparation   The act of preparing a data room will help get you in the mindset for fundraising by forcing you to ask what will an investor want to see . This process often prompts founders to document areas of the business that have previously been kept in their head such as future product development and hiring plans . Getting ready to scale and eventually exit Every good business is built on systems . Without documenting these systems , scaling without the wheels falling off will be near impossible . And when the time comes , should you finally get to an opportunity to exit you 'll need to show the acquirer everything that an investor wants to see and probably more . Aside from these reasons , having a data room is simply best practice and a key differentiator between the brilliant companies and the not so good ones . How to build a data room It is never too early to start your data room . In fact , the best founders will already have one in place from day one . It 's not rocket science . Here 's how to set one up in three simple steps . Since a data room is usually an extension or compilation of your existing file structure , if you 're organised and on top of your record keeping , setting up a data room is a quick and simple exercise . Leave it too late and you 'll be scrambling to put something together and it wo n't look good to potential investors . Rowan Grant is Partner at Full Circle VC and cofounder of SmartBooks Online . He has helped shepherd over 25 startup investment deals through due diligence in the past two years .