Habito , the UK 's digital mortgage broker , has raised EUR 6.4 million in Series A funding . The London - based startup has now raised a total of EUR 9.5 million . Habito provides a fast and transparent way to get people the best mortgage possible . Since its launch in April 2016 , Habito has helped more than 20,000 people better understand their mortgage and has completed EUR 58 million in mortgage applications . Daniel Hegarty , the founder and CEO of Habito stated : " The response we 've received from customers has proved what we always knew - there 's a huge opportunity to make the experience of getting a mortgage simpler , more transparent and a lot less painful . The industry has suffered from a lack of innovation for decades and the outdated , paper - based manual processes are n't fit for 21st century homeowners . Our technology empowers people to take control of their personal finances and protect themselves against getting or staying on the wrong mortgage . We 're excited to continue to build our business and deliver new services . " Habito 's success to date is signalling a shift in how consumers want to engage with financial services . Over 90% of customers prefer using live chat over a phone conversation to complete and submit their mortgage application . In addition , using artificial intelligence Habito has developed chatbot - Digital Mortgage Adviser - which has halved the average amount of time spent on each case . Coupled with this , the team are always on hand to answer questions - with access to over 10,000 mortgage products across a wide - range of lenders , they can find the best possible deal for the customer . The funding round was led by Silicon Valley - based Ribbit Capital , with participation from existing investor Mosaic Ventures . Over the next 12 months , habito plans to further develop its machine learning capabilities by creating a fully automated end - to - end platform which will enable it to offer new services , such as real - time mortgage approvals and automatic alerts when a better mortgage deal becomes available to registered customers . Micky Malka , founder and general partner , Ribbit Capital : " Mortgages are the biggest personal debt most people take on in their lifetime , and Habito brings a level of transparency that customers value and expect . I 'm confident that Daniel and his team have the right vision to change the mortgage industry for the better . We look forward to supporting them during this period of exponential growth . "