Tech advancements fall into two general categories : Those that help rich people solve problems that barely existed in the first place -- Uber for yachts , anyone ? -- and those that address meaningful social issues like homeless shelters or food waste reduction . We 'll be looking at the latter category today , with a list of startups that are all tackling a specific disability that could affect any of us : visual impairment . This is the type of problem tech innovation should address . This startup provides a visual interpreter useful to the 20 million blind and low - vision people that the American Foundation for the Blind estimates live in the United States . It pairs with wearables like Google Glass or Vuzix so that your smartphone can offer real - time feedback on your surroundings via a living , breathing human agent who can identify images caught on video . Last Feburary , they closed a Series A financing of over $ 2.5 million , led by Lux Capital and ARCH Venture Partners . This London - based startup aims to provide an audio system that will allow blind or low - vision Londoners to safely navigate their city 's transportation . Though not open to the public yet , the service has several impressive partnerships and trials under its belt . From their website : " We have been working with Transport for London for over a year , exploring the potential for audio navigation in an underground environment . In February 2015 we trialled an installation of beacons in Pimlico Underground Station in London . This developed into a further trial at Euston station in late 2015 . " Wayfindr hopes to build an open standard of audio navigation that can be used far beyond its home base . The EyeFocus Accelerator , launched in 2015 , serves as the world 's first innovation program specifically for companies " making products for preventing , curing , and living with eye disease and blindness . " It is in its second program , which will run until the end of this month . The for - profit social enterprise notes that 285 million people across the world have experienced the effects of sight loss , 80 percent of which is considered avoidable . They hope to change those numbers , offering both a bootcamp eduation and networking opportunities to their participants . This startup tackles visual impairment with AI : The computer vision on a wearable device identifies words and objects , as Startup - Buzz explains : " OrCam has a camera clipped on the eye glasses attached to another device that has a speaker . It assists by reading labels for identifying objects . The device can improve the identification of things that people with poor vision find tough to figure out .   OrCam has been launched in US and the startup has raised $ 15 Million overall funding . " This company also takes the AI route , presenting users with an app that will identify nearby objects with simple common nouns : Point it at your feet and it will tell you if you 're wearing boots . The service boasts an efficient neural network that functions on anything from your phone , IoT device or AR glass . It can identify colors as well , and the team is working on the ability to label complete scenes . " I can see this changing the way that I walk down the street , " said one proponent , Scott Blanks , Deputy Director of the Lighthouse Center . " The exploration , the willingness to investigate something more than I would otherwise do if I did n't have an immediate assistance from a fellow bystander . "   