Barclays Africa Group and Techstars today released the names of 10 financial - technology ( fintech ) companies selected to participate in the second Barclays Accelerator programme , powered by Techstars . The successful companies , all focused on providing fintech solutions in Africa , will participate in a 13-week growth acceleration programme at Barclays Africa 's Rise fintech innovation hub in Cape Town from mid - May . The 2017 programme participants are : Flexpay ( Kenya ) , Howler ( South Africa ) , Spatialedge ( South Africa ) , Abe.ai ( USA ) , The Sun Exchange ( South Africa ) , Byte Money ( South Africa ) , Avenews - GT ( Israel ) , FOMO Travel ( South Africa ) , Kapitalwise ( USA ) and eCOIDA ( South Africa ) . Yasaman Hadjibashi , chief creation officer at Barclays Africa Group , said : " Our diverse , ambitious , and growth - hungry African continent with its young population is finding a growing self - actualisation momentum now more than ever , with the largest segment being the millennials . " Through our deep and lean collaborations with fintechs , and in fact all kinds of startups , we aim to further drive this momentum that can result in the creation and accelerated distribution of new products , experiences , and services that will make a difference for our African communities . " Applications were received from fintech startups in 52 countries . Through a rigorous and competitive process , the 10 successful companies were selected to participate in the 13-week accelerator programme . The best fintech solutions could be made available across the Barclays Africa Group footprint comprising close to 12 million customers in ten African markets , and participants could have the opportunity to leverage the bank 's expertise and technology teams . " Each of the 10 successful companies represented something unique that we believe has the potential to become a significant and relevant player on a global scale , " says Yossi Hasson , MD of Techstars . " Access to Barclays Africa 's base is a significant opportunity for these fintech companies to greatly accelerate their growth through partnership or distribution deals with Barclays and access to their senior executives as mentors , providing key expertise to the startups that ordinarily would be almost impossible to get access to , " adds Hasson . The companies will follow the proven Techstars model and will have direct access to top mentors , investors and venture capitalists in Africa as well life - long access to the Techstars global network . The accelerator programme aims to uncover the next " Paypal " by working with exceptional fintech entrepreneurs innovating Africa 's financial services industry . Techstars is the " best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market , " says Hasson . " Techstars is significant as it has been working with technology businesses since 2006 and has invested in more than 920 companies which have gone on to raise over $ 3-billion dollars in funding . Ninety percent of companies that have been through a Techstars accelerator are still active today or have been acquired " . Abe.ai ( USA ) : Designs artificial intelligence solutions for the banking industry , helping banks better engage and support their customers at scale ; significantly reducing the costs of servicing and acquiring customers through the use of chatbots . FOMO Travel ( SA ) : Provides a gamification model for travel , which gives the user the opportunity to reduce their financial obligation through crowdfunding , rewards and incentives . Avenews - GT ( ISRAEL ) : Designed a digital trading platform based on blockchain technology , modernising agricultural trade by connecting food wholesalers to food producers directly , reducing distribution costs , creating financial security , and providing chain transparency . Byte Money ( SA ) : Provides solutions that help avoid mismanagement of payments in the informal sector . Byte Money taps into and revolutionises existing third - world payment channels and integrates them with first - world technologies . Flexpay ( Kenya ) : Provides an automated and secured layaway system that manages the purchase of goods . Customers can choose to pay for goods over varying periods of time . Howler ( SA ) : Provides an event commerce platform . Howler is the consolidation of three powerful events and entertainment platforms , designed at the highest benchmark of service and technology , helping consumers and event organisers to make moments that matter . Spatialedge ( SA ) : Focused on consumer analytics and targeting . Using a proprietary consumer database , Spatialedge enriches and verifies clients and customers by spatially locating them , mapping them , and use advanced analytics to help clients locate and target new customers . Kapitalwise ( US ) : Simplifies the investment process for millennials by automating their investment decisions using machine learning and predictive analytics . eCOIDA ( SA ) : eCOIDA is an online insurance technology platform ; a central database that connects all role players in real - time , creating an accurate workflow , fraud - free , paperless claims - processing platform . The Sun Exchange ( SA ) : The Sun Exchange enables anyone anywhere to own and earn from solar panels powering Africa , India and other developing economies . The exchange allows for collaborative solar finance using blockchain .   