Working at a startup means you 're able to change course quickly . Pexels When a business is looking for funding and they get rejected by a bank , they are now more likely to head to the internet . Funding Options is a price comparison site for this exact scenario , working a bit like a dating site to match lenders with businesses depending on their specific needs . According to founder and CEO Conrad Ford , Funding Options finances tens of millions of pounds in finance to businesses each year from some of the biggest lenders out there . But the company was n't always so lucrative . Funding Options went through a few tough years when it began . " There 's a few startups in fintech that seem to have got things right on day one and exploded from there and became unicorns , " Ford told Business Insider . " We certainly were n't in that category . It was two or three years before the torch paper lit and we fired into life . " Business Insider sat down with Ford to discuss his story and what he would recommend graduates do if they 're looking to get into the fintech industry . Here are 8 pieces of advice he learned from his own experiences . If you want to get into the fintech world but you 've also been offered a job at a big financial institution , Ford says you should always take it . " I personally think that in the very early stages of your career , unless you 're extraordinarily entrepreneurial , joining a large institution that has a graduate program , it 's probably the best thing you can possibly do , " he said . In short , after three years you will have made a lot of money and gone through a very structured program , which taught you technical skills around the industry . Ford says it 's also good practice to learn how to behave in an office . Moreover , you 'll be better equipped to take risks . " The world of constant change is only going to accelerate , it 's not like the opportunities wo n't be here in three years time , " Ford said . " And you 'll probably be better prepared for them when you 've done that . " When Ford worked in strategy for a major bank , it was very much a case of making small changes and having more or less a certainty of the outcome . When he started up Funding Options , he quickly worked out that the vast majority of what he thought to be true turned out not to be . " I did customer surveys , I did desktop research , all these expert skills I learned at large institutions , " he said . " Every piece of desktop research told me something was a great opportunity , then when I tried it in the real world , it failed miserably . " According to Ford , no business plan will survive the first contact with a customer . So there 's no point worrying about making something perfect the first time around . " To survive and to make a startup work , you need to be like a motor boat , " he said . " You need to take advantage of the fact you can whiz around and change course . You do n't have that inherent momentum [ like a bank ] but you can afford to get it wrong . So getting it wrong and failing fast is really important . " At a bank , Ford says he could work for endless amounts of time on a project . When starting up Funding Options , the team worked for about a year before releasing it to the public , only for it to fail . In hindsight , Ford says he could have learned just as much if they had launched on day one . " It was just learning the brutally hard way with other people 's money and wasting a year of my life , " he said . " You have to be fast and agile . That was the biggest challenge for me . " Conrad Ford in the Funding Options office . Funding Options Funding Options has seen a 14-fold increase in revenues over the past couple of years . Ford puts this down to not raising too much money too early on in its genesis . " I 'm kind of glad that I did n't immediately raise lots of money early on , because I would have taken just as long to learn some stuff , and spent a lot of other people 's money along the way , " he said . Also , when a company raises a lot of money , the team generally grows along with it . Funding Options is currently at about 25 employees , and Ford likes it this way because it means there are no politics or back - stabbings going on . He calls it the company 's " strict no d***heads policy . " Ford says he found a resilience in himself he ever knew he had when starting Funding Options . In the first two or three tough years , when things were n't going to plan , he discovered how to deal with the things that are -- in the startup world -- a matter of life or death . " Nothing can prepare you for not being sure whether you can pay your staff the next day , " Ford said . " Or not being sure if that funding round is going to close , then literally you 're down to you last PS5000 or whatever it might be in the bank account . " He says he asks people that want to join the company whether they are psychologically happy with treating a job at a startup like it 's temporary . Working at a startup may sound glamorous , but it 's also a massive risk that you need to be prepared for . Things are going well for Funding Options right now , but Ford often thinks about all the things that could still fail . " I 've never lost the view of the world that says one day I 'm going to wake up and something is going to go fundamentally wrong , " he said . " I think it 's stupid to get complacent . " Fintech is n't something that appeared out of nowhere . There was a time when ATMs did n't exist , and when they came out they were massively innovative . Ford says fintech has always been around , but the rate of its evolution has accelerated recently . When the next big thing comes along , Ford is confident that Funding Options will be able to adapt to it . " We 're still small and scrappy enough that we 're still used to things going wrong , " he said . " I do n't think there 's something that 's going to happen that quickly that we ca n't respond to it . We are a technology company , there 's nothing technological we could n't do . "