TransferWise CEO Taavet Hinrikus . Jan Haas / DPA / PA Images LONDON -- Online money transfer business TransferWise says it is on track for revenues of PS100 million ( $ 128.97 million ) this year and is profitable on an operational basis . In a business update on Wednesday , the closely - watched startup said it is currently doing PS8 million a month in revenue and should hit PS100 million in total this year . Revenues grew by 150% last year , the company said . That would suggest revenues of close to PS69 million in the year to March 2017 , as TransferWise had a turnover of PS27.8 million in the year to March 2016 . Founded in 2011 , London - headquartered TransferWise lets people send money overseas online . It has built its brand around being cheap and easy , leaving banks playing catch up . The company moves over PS1 billion across its platform each month and has over 1 million customers . TransferWise says it expects to add another 1 million customers this year . CEO and cofounder Taavet Hinrikus says in an emailed statement : " We 're building one of the few new global financial services brands that are coming out now . It 's hard to build a 10x better product , go to market and build your own brand ; that 's why you see a lot of co - operation between banks and fintechs . " To have hit break - even just six years on from launch shows how strong the foundations of our business are . This is just the starting point . With the unique platform we 've built , we 're looking forward to creating a new kind of financial services for the future . " TransferWise is one of London 's few " unicorns " -- private tech companies worth over $ 1 billion . The business was reportedly valued at $ 1.1 billion in a $ 26 million funding round last May. TransferWise currently employs 700 people in 9 offices around the world , recently launching an Asian hub in Singapore . The company says it has a 10% share of the international money transfer market in the UK and lets customers send money on over 750 routes . The business update comes amid increasing competition in the online money transfer market . London foreign exchange startup Revolut recently announced it would offer free international transfers of up to PS5,000 a month , saying in a press release that the offer is " to challenge TransferWise . " ( The move raised eyebrows in the tech community given that both companies share an investor -- Index Ventures . )