For years , the NFL has had to own up to accusations of unsafe play . With retired players developing the symptoms of CTE and the increased amount of injuries to current players , the future of football is constantly in flux . The NFL understands that safety is a serious problem . Unfortunately , they do n't know how to fix it . Fortunately , they 've enlisted the help of three startups to develop safety technology for players in the future . " We think technology is our friend , " said Commissioner Roger Goodell during a roundtable discussion . " Technology is going to help solve these complex problems for us . " At the league 's second annual 1st and Future event at the Texas Medical Center Innovation Institute , the NFL took a step forward in their commitment to protecting their players by funding three startups that are focused on a wide range of safety concerns . They competed with a number of other startups in hopes of locking down the $ 50,000 prize for the NFL . " I think what captivated the judges and grabbed our interest is these are translational ideas , " said Jeff Miller , the NFL 's executive vice president for health and safety initiatives . " You can imagine these things being on a field of play , whether at the NFL level or at lower levels of our sport relatively quickly . " The three startups that came away with the funding address everything from on - field communication to innovative padding systems to protect players . Check them out below and keep an eye out for this revolutionary tech on the gridiron next season . This startup created the only playmaking technology that combines intelligent software and on - field wearable products to enhance practice for high school , college , and professional football teams . This company designs , markets and distributes motorized tackling dummies , or " virtual players , " that reduce the risk of getting injured while tackling during practice . This startup , led by former NFL cornerback Shawn Springs , developed a padding system designed to absorb and disperse impact energy to improve the performance of helmets and other protective gear . Photo : Flickr / Keith Allison