Europe has a long history of fashion and design , and with the adoption of new technologies , more and more exciting fashion tech startups are entering that space . In a way , fashion related tech startups have already changed the traditional relationships between consumers and brands and pushed the boundaries of traditional ways of thinking about fashion . As technological innovation continues to change the fashion world in different ways , many European startups have shown potential to disrupt our shopping habits and alter the way we do shopping . Here are 10 companies with the potential to shake the fashion industry : Chic by Choice - Winner of the Best fashion startup award at the The Europas Startup Conference and Awards in 2016 , Chic by Choice is one - of - a - kind hire destination which allows women to access designer dresses , straight from the catwalks . Described as Uber for clothes , Chic by Choice 's idea is to make garments from some of the world 's best brands available on a short - term basis , at a fraction of the cost of buying , coupled with an efficient delivery service and excellent discount prices . Founded in 2014 , Chic by Choice now operates offices in London and Lisbon and ships to more than 15 European markets , including the major fashion centers of the UK , Germany , France and Italy offering a selection of more than 40 designers . Showroom - Founded in 2012 , Showrom is a Warsaw - based e - commerce platform , allowing customers to have access to clothing from numerous independent fashion designers , based in and around Central and Eastern Europe . The marketplace allows designers to upload photos and post descriptions of the items themselves and consumers can then buy straight from the designers , after each item has been approved by an experienced team . The brand has established itself as an important sales channel for independent fashion designers and today over 500 carefully selected designers with 25.000 products are selling via the platform . Mysprezz - Often described as " Tinder for fashion " , MySprezz is the first app to instantly suggest the best looks for fashion inspiration based on your style and the weather . Launched in September 2016 , this e - commerce is all about personalized fashion inspiration . It aims to help users dress better and shop smarter by allowing to swipe through personalised looks based on their profile ( gender , style , budget , wardrobe , calendar and weather ) with the possibility of shopping all the clothes , shoes and accessories of the looks they like . Famous brands such as Asos , Topshop , Farfetch , Mytheresa are already included in the system , along with 400 other brands . Fitle - Founded in 2013 and headquartered in Paris , Fitle is a french startup which offers virtual fitting technology for shopping clothes online . Started out as a kickstarter campaign , Fitle offers thousands of pieces of clothing , sorted by relevance and based on your style and need . In addition , Fitle offers the possibility to virtually try them on using your own customized avatar . Fitle relies on a large R&D team of more than twenty people and on the largest body database on the market . Used by 3 + millions users and encompassing over 200 + brands and e - commerce sites , fitle is close to revolutionising a online fashion industry . Thread - The Y Combinator alumni helps users make sense of the world of fashion by matching them up with their own personal stylist through its platform . Eight human personal stylists are currently helping men find a new image , dress well , or simply sort out their clothes shopping . Very easy to use : You join the site , take a style questionnaire and upload photos of yourself . A stylist then reviews your information and , supported by Thread 's algorithms , the site generates style recommendations personalised for you , claiming to take into account over 50 elements of style , from eye colour and body shape to brand , fit , and fabric . The unique personal shopping experience of the London - based startup has already attracted over 500,000 male shoppers . Stylect - A Tinder - esque mobile app that helps women purchase their perfect shoes . By swiping left or right , users pick their choices from multiple websites and based on users ' preferences , the app recommends your next possible purchase . Exclusively targeted at the female market Stylect allows a 99% female user base to browse through tens of thousands of pairs of shoes , keep tabs on the pairs they like , make purchases , and receive information about special offers , price reductions or nearby stores where the shoes are available . It 's incredibly addictive , and not only for Carrie Bradshaw 's fans . Stylect is based in London and took part in the Oxygen accelerator . Endeer - Given the fact that 80 - 85% of women are currently wearing the wrong size bra , Endeer is exploiting the customization aspects offered through 3D printing technologies to provide better bra buying experience . Using state - of - the - art technology , this startup creates made - to - measure , 3D - printed removable pads that can be used with bras made by partner brands . In other words , their software and hardware approach is focused only on the pragmatic problems women face in standardized models , enabling brands to better respond to customer needs and provide customized solutions . Claiming their mission as empowering every woman in a bra that fits , Endeer might be the future of lingerie . The French startup was founded in 2016 . De Rigueur - De Rigueur is a Lyon - based startup that combines know - how in leather and technological innovation with the aim of introducing a new category of hybrid goods . Winner of the CES Innovation Award 2016 for its product Connected Sleeve , a wireless and elegant charging solution for smartphones . With its integrated 7,000 milliamp hour battery , this unique practical wallet works by electromagnetic induction , eliminating the need for cables and optimising energy consumption with patented hardware and embedded software . The product is currently available only in womens category . Lesara - The Berlin - based e - commerce company offers their customers the latest fashion and lifestyle products daily at the best prices . Relying strictly on automated and real - time analytics to discover the specific style trends demanded by individual consumer , Lesara has become the leading online retailer for fashion and lifestyle merchandise at best prices . Awarded for Europe 's fastest growing tech startup in 2016 , it now operates in 23 countries , over 200 employees , with production of their own clothing in factories in China and photography studio in Hong Kong , has a customer base of over one million and is an innovative pioneer in the field of Agile Retail . Asap54 - Decribed as Shazam for clothes , Asap54 is a startup with a fashion search and discovery app that lets users upload pictures of anything that inspires them and receive shoppable suggestions from the app . They combine a social fashion community with the latest visual recognition technology , for example users can also follow friends and style muses to discover their fashion searches and the app also provides a personal styling function whereby a team of experts will help users hunt down the items they desire . The London - based startup has already attracted more than 8 m in investment and is slowly turning into google for fashion products .  