Cybersecurity is on the minds of most businesses today , but there 's one area where companies often screw up : failing to protect their key executives when they 're on the move . In today 's environment , there are an abundance of well - funded and sophisticated hacking groups out there , many with nation - state or organized crime affiliations and interests , who are looking for any way possible to defraud or steal information from American business interests . Like any other criminal , hackers look for weaknesses in the security perimeter before they attack -- and often , that sweet spot is to be found in the personal security of key company figures . One example is " Darkhotel , " the Korean - speaking hacking group that targeted countless business executives via hotel Wi - Fi from 2010 to 2015 . As a former Secret Service agent , it was my job to protect the President from both physical and digital attacks . ( Few realize this , but the USSS was one of the first federal agencies to develop a strong cyber defense and intelligence unit . ) From a cyber standpoint , this meant implementing a robust security perimeter around the President 's personal devices and communications ( e.g. stripping down the phone , limiting access , multiple layers of encryption , constant monitoring and defense ) , particularly when the President was outside of the White House . Businesses , from startups to Fortune 500s , need to adopt a similar mindset when it comes to their own commanders - in - chief , because cyber attacks are a low - cost , low - risk way to steal intellectual property , business intelligence and ultimately the company 's money -- and the C - suite ( along with other key figures , like a head engineer or programmer ) is definitely a focal point for criminals . Consider these statistics : No business can be fully secure unless it is taking ample steps to protect the digital assets of its leadership . Here are six steps to take : Only a small , select group of people should be allowed to email key executives ; all other addresses should be blocked . Known as email " whitelisting , " this greatly reduces the risk of phishing attacks on the executive . Additionally , use strong anti - malware and anti - phishing solutions to boost the executive 's email security . Every VIP should be protected by multiple layers of encryption . This acts as a fail - safe in the event that an attacker breaks through the other defenses . Every device that connects to Wi - Fi ( phone , tablet , laptop , desktop ) must have a VPN , or virtual private network , which will encrypt all data in transit . Next , a full - disk or file encryption program should be used to secure data that is stored on these devices . Limit the executive 's communications to encrypted channels only , like PGP for email , or encrypted communications like Wickr Pro . All web sessions need to be done over HTTPS ( SSL / TLS encryption ) ; there are browser plugins like EFF 's HTTPS Everywhere that will force a secure connection on every website . Just as the U.S. President uses a smartphone with very limited functionality , a business executive 's phone should also be stripped down as much as possible , with only essential functionality as needed . The more boring it is , the better . That means eliminating all non - essential apps , especially games , scaling back the phone 's connectivity options by disabling Bluetooth , disabling Wi - Fi auto - connect and turning off geolocation sharing for all apps ( with the exception of " Find My Phone " ) . Social media can also pose a risk , but if your business depends on using it , at the very least make sure geolocation data is turned off in the app ( there are online tools that can track a user based on this data ) and be careful about oversharing , as sensitive information can be used against executives and employees in social engineering attacks . Also , use public Wi - Fi sparingly , even when a VPN is utilized . Executives are most at risk when traveling overseas , particularly to countries like China and Russia . When making these trips , it 's important to be a little paranoid . Burner devices , or " phones to go , " are an effective way of reducing the risk from compromised devices . This is n't cheap , but it 's worth the investment and inconvenience . Malware and man - in - the - middle ( MiTM ) attacks are more likely during foreign stays , so by putting aside the phone or laptop after a trip , the executive will prevent an infected device from getting " behind the firewall " after he or she returns . It 's also important to have a remote lock / erase feature installed on all devices in case they are lost or stolen . Home offices can be an easy target for hackers , since they are likely to have less security than the corporate office . At a minimum , make sure a robust firewall and antivirus / anti - malware agents have been installed . Also , keep all devices ( laptop , desktop , server , Wi - Fi router ) fully updated on software / firmware settings , security patches , etc .   Next , reduce the attack surface on the laptop or desktop by disabling Java , JavaScript and ActiveX , or by adding script - blocking plugins . Set up application whitelisting so that only pre - approved applications and processes can run on these machines . Eliminate Wi - Fi as much as possible by using an ethernet cable instead . It 's also wise to have two internet lines -- one for the family and one exclusively for the executive . Use an outbound firewall to block any malware or malicious programs that do sneak in from being able to connect to the internet . DNS security tools ( such as OpenDNS ) will further protect the internet connection and block malicious or suspect domains . Most executives have -- or will have -- " smart " devices in their homes , in addition to connected cars , wearables and other internet of things products . These complicate the security picture , as many IoT products have been found to be vulnerable to hackers . Limit IoT usage to only well established , trusted brands with a proven track record of security . Avoid installing IoT apps on the work phone . Also , keep these devices off the executive 's home Wi - Fi network -- if you have two internet lines installed , relegate them to the all - purpose / family network . An executive 's personal security can be the Achilles ' heel of any company , from startup to Fortune 500 , so it 's critical to implement a defense - in - depth approach that will keep their digital assets safe . Larry Johnson is chief strategy officer of CyberSponse , a Washington , D.C .- based cyber incident response company serving Fortune 500s and government agencies . He is a 24-year veteran of the Secret Service , where he served as a hig ...