Authors and social networks are a natural fit . After all they both live off of a steady stream of words . Even before the digital networks existed , authors relied on the old - school network of snail mail . HP Lovecraft famously loved responding to fan mail . When the internet rolled around , FanFiction.net soon captured millions of fiction - writing fans . Now , the mobile era is upon us , and fiction writers are finding new ways to publish their works one chapter at a time . Along with Wattpad and Medium , Sweek is an example of the type of international networking app that young digital - savvy writers are turning to adopt . Following its pilot launch in June 2016 , the Netherlands - based Sweek has reached over 75 countries and brought together thousands of users who share stories -- fiction and non - fiction alike -- in over 10 languages . I had a candid chat with Sweek cofounder and marketing manager Sabine van der Plas in the privately owned startup 's origins , its growth strategy , its revenue model and more . Here 's the Q&A , which has been condensed and edited for clarity . All of the Sweek cofounders were involved in Mybestseller , the leading self - publishing platform in the Netherland . Peter Paul van Bekkum is the CEO of both Sweek and Mybestseller . Next to operating its own brands , Mybestseller also created over 40 private labels for publishers , bookstores and various other parties . Following the latest market developments , we all saw mobile publishing as the next strategic step for Mybestseller , since mobile and self - publishing have a lot of synergies . In essence , Sweek is a global - free mobile platform which allows anyone to read , write and share stories . On Sweek you can find stories of both upcoming writers and established top authors , in all genres , to be read online and offline . Sweek makes reading and writing social , with authors being able to reach their readers with just one click , and brings stories to the pocket - sized device that we carry everywhere . Sweek beta - launched with an Android application in June 2016 , followed by the official launch on all the platforms in October 2016 . Since then , over 75.000 users have registered on Sweek and created more than 12.000 stories . We find our audience via WOM , social media reach , blogger and community collaborations , writing competitions and much more . Next to enthusiastic readers , our audience consists of young aspiring writers whose goal is to connect with the community and to join our writing competitions , but we 're also getting the interest of top authors who are using Sweek to reach to the smartphone generation who do not visit the bookstore any more . Our main markets are Latin America , the Netherlands , Germany , Turkey , India and generally English - speaking countries . We saw a gap for a platform with a clear , user - friendly experience with a diverse set of content in all genres , from both established and aspiring authors . We are also focusing on establishing partnerships with traditional publishers . For instance , currently we have a writing competition on Sweek in collaboration with Ravensburger , where YA writers have a chance of winning an e - book publishing contract . What you see is a leading traditional publisher partnering up with a relatively new mobile platform in order to discover talent . We also have the ' top author ' category , where published authors are easily discovered . We also differentiate ourselves with our Sweek self - publishing platform which none of the existing competitors have . Sweek authors can publish their digital work , for free , into an e - book , paperback or hardcover and sell their books worldwide . They start earning from the first copy sold . The fanbase the authors build on Sweek is for sure interested in having a physical copy of the story . We currently print in Europe , but in a few months we 'll also have a POD network established in Latin America and India . Sweek is free to all the users , and our first priority is to grow the community . We share the margin per sold copy of the Sweek self - publishing platforms and we have a range of revenue models ready for the future , including big data , native advertising and possibly premium subscription models . You can dive into the top authors list in some languages - with quality content of bestselling and published authors - or you can check out the editor 's picks in the featured lists . Next to that you can filter categories and see popular and new stories . Or you can browse stories with a certain tag . Behind the scenes we 're working on a ' suggested readings ' algorithm that will show stories tailored to your demographics as well as reading preferences . One of my favorite stories on Sweek is ' Finding Kelly Strattan ' , a superb psych thriller that won the ' Write Your 2017 ' competition . The winner never published anything publicly , although she was writing since a very young age , and this was the first time . We think this is a great example of how Sweek inspires and encourages people to write more . We 're looking forward to seeing our Ravensburger writing competition evolve further . On short notice we 're organizing similar competitions with publishers ( whose names we ca n't mention yet ) as well as collaborations with global writing schools . Keep a close eye on Sweek to see new top authors popping up who are sharing their short stories , columns , exclusive previews and sometimes even complete books . We also believe in serialized writing and will experiment with it in the near future . Read more about emerging startups at Tech . Co .