Investing in startups is a risky business when up to 90 percent of them are destined to fail . Industry analysts like Forrester and Gartner are reaping the benefits , attracting clients from 71 and 74 percent of the Global 500 respectively to their expert insights and market research reports such as the Magic Quadrant . But their foothold could face a new threat in the near future from an emerging disruptor known as GrowthEnabler . The company has devised a series of algorithms that they claim identify the world 's most innovative and valuable startups from a wide range technologies , sectors , and locations . GrowthEnabler was founded in 2015 by ex - Gartner executives Aftab Malhotra and Rajeev Banduni . The two had spent almost a decade at the firm when they decided to use their knowledge to start investing in companies . Their stints working with big companies as both advisors and investors convinced the duo that they had discovered a huge business opportunity . " We realised that these guys were struggling to really identify the next big technology disruption in the startup economy , " chief growth officer Malhotra remembers . " The reason they were struggling was because most of the big research companies out there , like Gartner , Forester , IDC were studying organisations that were more developed and more mature . " As the established technology analysts were n't providing the insights on disruption , Malhotra and Banduni teamed up to do it instead , with a new disruptive venture replacing opinions with automation to identify and score the right startup to invest in . Algorithmic analysis Startups tend to lack the comprehensive information available on listed companies due to the inherent uncertainty of their data . The GrowthEnabler platform is designed to clean up this information . The companies are organised into early - stage , mid - stage , and late - stage startups and then analysed by predefined algorithms that cover thirty parameters across five separate categories : product innovation , business traction , financial strength , leadership and social media and branding . The algorithms encompass both quantitative and qualitative data , applying data mechanisms to the latter to standardise subjective values . Leadership is evaluated by culling data about the background of the founders , including the previous positions and organisations where they worked . A matching engine assesses the level of relevance to the job at the new company . The greater the match between the two roles , the higher the higher chance of the expertise being of value . It also analyses educational background , feeding Forbes and Footsie rating mechanisms back into the platform . Product innovation review benchmarks including patent applications filed by the founders that demonstrate their credibility , while business traction looks at the books through sources such as Companies House . The social media and branding category assesses startups on their media mentions , awards , and social media traction . It covers activity and reach on Facebook and Twitter , engagement and interactions with prominent VCs and any awards won both domestically and internationally . Financial strength is determined through financial data on funding rounds and investment raised from different databases . The   information is then validated through multiple sources " There about 40,000 high - grade , mid - grade and low - grade investors that we built a list of , and we 've tiered them , " says Malhotra . " We try to trawl their website as well as validation of the information . " The results are combined to provide a relative score on the overall value of the startup . The company had previously predominately used a mixture of open source technology but is now increasingly incorporating its own custom creations . " We 're trying to make everything as proprietary and in - house as possible , simply because of security protection and also the venture capital groups like that in terms of our future growth , " says Malhotra . " They like things that we created ourselves . " The business model Dozens of FTSE 100 businesses currently subscribe to the GrowthEnabler service , but Malhotra is reluctant to reveal their names at this point .   " Our model is unique . It 's not just a platform , it 's a hybrid service , " he says . " You buy the platform but there 's a layer of advisory built into it . " The advisory layer of regular meetings with a seasoned analyst is meshed into the product to add a layer of protection for bigger decisions . Malhotra admits that some of the startups featured were initially concerned about how they would rank but now see the platform as a free business opportunity rather than a potential threat to their reputation . " With every startup today if you ask them what 's the one thing you could have more of , it would be visibility , " he explains . " They need money , but not infinite amounts of it , but they need visibility and that 's hard . The index is a credible way of getting visibility because someone else is endorsing them aside from themselves . " A feature called Connect Up acts as a dating agency for corporations to engage with startups after reviewing their profile through a notification system . Another offering called Product Source set for release in three months ' time will help C - level executives search solutions to their specific challenges from credible alternatives to tier one companies by analysing their ratings or requesting their suggestions . If a company was losing millions of dollars a year on its supply chain , for example , and wanted software that could optimise warehousing , it could handpick companies it was interested in and automatically feed the challenge to them . It could then analyse their response before deciding whether it was worth further discussion . Future plans The company covers all technology areas , but currently the core strengths are in the areas they 've studied in greatest depth , such as the Internet of Things , where a comprehensive report was recently published , and AI , the subject of the next one . Eventually their capacity will fully expand across every sector of the ecosystem . " The vision that we have here is that this platform is a one of a kind , to the extent that it becomes the most trusted and essential resource you go to try and better understand the idiosyncrasies of the startup economy , " Malhotra explains . " It starts with the fundamentals of indexes , scoring , transparency , and consistency that we 're trying to bring , and then it evolves into intelligence and various other things . And as part of that comes this idea that if I 'm someone in the financial services sector , I want to know about startups that could disrupt me in the financial sector across multiple technology areas : AI , AR , VR , or big data , for example . " If I am , on the other hand , in the logistics sector , then I want to know about any company who could crush my warehousing and logistics supply chain and I do n't want to be destroyed by Amazon in the future . I want to be well aware of this and I want to think 10 steps ahead . " We 've organised our 500,000 startups that we 're analysing across 15 technology areas and 20 technology sectors . We 're basically saying , no matter where you sit we 'll give you a service that 's going to be effective . "