Bots will soon be able to join video conversations in 1:1 and group Skype calls , Microsoft announced today . Bot builders can use the BotBuilder RealTimeMediaCalling extension on Github , now in preview , to bring Skype bots into video conversations . A software development kit for the creation of interactive Skype video bots will be released at an undetermined date , a Skype spokesperson told VentureBeat . " This platform provides real - time , voice and video streams of a Skype call which allows developers to build personal , immersive communications experiences with services and brands , " Skype said in a blog post today . Video bots will be able to do a vast range of things . Beyond brand marketing , video bots could act as your virtual secretary online , or interview a job applicant in a mock interview . AI smarts like sentiment and mood tracking could then be used to grade the readiness of a job applicant . Other changes to Skype available in preview today include the ability to embed web chat -- either human or bot -- right on a website . Doing so will allow a merchant or organization to handle customer service on Skype . The move puts Skype squarely in competition with other live chat services for customer service , from Facebook Messenger to established industry players like LivePerson or startups like Smooch . But bots are n't just coming to the web -- the web is also coming to bots . Skype Add - Ins is also in preview starting today . Add - Ins get a dedicated tab in Skype and operate in a webview , much like the chat extensions that were added to Facebook Messenger three weeks ago . To test new features like Add - Ins , join the waitlist or download the Skype Preview app in the Android app store . Much has happened this week in the AI - bot - chat app sphere for Microsoft . In addition to changes to Skype today , Microsoft Bot Framework channels to publish a bot were extended to Skype for Business , Cortana , and Bing.com search results . The framework is now able to use a Microsoft payments API for transactions . The Cortana Skills Kit is now in public preview , and a selection of 20 some - odd Cortana skills were also made available today . Earlier this week , Harman Kardon Invoke , which will feature Skype and Cortana , was given a launch window of this fall . Other Cortana - enabled devices are also on the way in partnership with HP and Intel , Microsoft announced today .