It 's safe to say that 2016 was the year of artificial intelligence . And while 2016 has come and gone , 2017 is n't going to stray from the AI path we 're on right now . This technology has penetrated nearly every conceivable sector , from finance and education to operations and service , and in a particularly interesting way , to sales . Depending on the report you read , somewhere between 50 - 70 percent of sales people do n't make their yearly quotas . That number is staggeringly high and suggests that there is an enormous amount of room in the average sales department for improving those outcomes . Part of the problem is that , while most sales teams already have all the data to close those deals faster stashed in their CRM , obtaining the intel can be rather challenging . In fact , according to research conducted by Attivio , only 23 percent of companies encourage the use of big data to make sales easier . Additionally , 37 percent of respondents mentioned that it may take a day or more to access the sources for the analytics and dig through all the data silos . Hiring data scientists to do the digging for you seems like the obvious decision in this case . However , 66 percent of the same survey respondents mentioned that hiring a professional is extremely challenging . For startups , the cost of having an in - house employee may be rather high as well . That 's exactly where artificial intelligence could play a great role . Earlier this year , Salesforce has created some hype after announcing their new AI - powered CRM add - on , nicknamed Einstein , that would deliver better insights to the sales , marketing and customer support teams . The app will also deliver smart recommendations and predictions based on the advanced machine learning algorithms . Salesforce , however , is n't the only sales platform harnessing the power of artificial intelligence . Base CRM has recently launched another tool called Apollo , which also acts as a smart big data advisor and automatically delivers better insights about your customer base . People.ai has taken another approach and built a productivity platform for sales managers , which delivers actionable insights on how to improve the teams performance , highlight what strategies are working , and advise on what to ditch . In addition , SaaS Co. has just received $ 800,000 in Seed funding to continue developing the first AI - driven sales assistant named LISA . As Tom Dietterich , a professor and director of Intelligent Systems at Oregon State University , previously stated : " Instead of AI systems replacing people in the workplace , each of us would have an AI assistant that we would train in our lives and the two of us , together , would be employed ... This is where we can see super - human performance coming from the combination of the human and the computer . " That 's exactly the case with sales . We should n't expect artificial intelligence to fully replace the human sales teams . But this technology can definitely leverage the efficiency and business decisions in multiple ways . It can be used to capture and refine data from external sources . For instance , IoT gadgets or on - premises iBeacons . In that case , we can obtain real - time details of customer buying behaviour . By sourcing and analyzing the data coming from different sales channels ( emails , calls , social media ) , the AI algorithms could provide the optimal personalized propositions for customers and compose the best marketing emails . In addition , personalization can be taken on a whole new level as well as razor sharp audience segmenting and smarter targeting . Artificial intelligence algorithms could even retrieve the best opportunities to improve customer satisfaction and deploy automatic up - sell and cross - sell strategies . While artificial intelligence can definitely help us optimize and organize piled data more effectively , it 's still not a magic pill for all your problems . AI - powered systems will have to be trained to make accurate predictions based on your historic data . But what if past insight are incomplete or incorrect ? Another important question we should be asking is how to establish trust between humans and AI - powered solutions . As Patrick Mankins noted : " Before self - driving cars can really take off , people will probably have to trust their cars to make complex , sometimes moral , decisions on their behalf , much like when another person is driving . " If we want a future where customer support and sales assistants get replaced by smart chatbots , we 'll have to work on building solutions that sound convincing , confident and can build up empathy . Right now , chatbots still need to learn that . But we are sure to have some great advances in this filed in 2017 .