South African media company Media24 , has invested an undisclosed amount to acquire 10% of music streaming service NicheStreem . The service focuses on emerging markets and curated music solutions . The service is solely founded by Catherine Luckhoff , who was previously an Exco member of Silicon Cape , as well as chief business development officers and head of brand strategy at Bozza.mobi . Though Luckhoff could n't give us the exact amount that Media24 had invested , she did say NicheStreem is raising a US$ 1.5-million round on a US$ 3.5-million valuation , and 50% of that has been filled so far . NicheStream 's first and only product thus far , Liedjie , launched in 2016 as a dedicated Afrikaans music streaming service . To date , the service has over 40 000 music tracks , 1000 human curated playlists , and 11 000 registered users . It is available on Android and iOS for R49.99 per month and has cleared US$ 200 000 in combined B2B and B2C revenue thus far . " Media24 is constantly on the lookout for opportunities to provide an enriched and engaging user experience to the largest digital audience in the country , such as NicheStreem 's first product , Liedjie , which is aimed at the Afrikaans music streaming market , " says head of 24.com , Andreij Horn . Read more : Meet NicheStreem : SA 's curated streaming service for music lovers " As part of this , we invest in local teams and startups that are adjacent to our core . It 's early days , but we are excited about the partnership and the positive reaction it sees across our channels . " Ventureburn had a chance to speak to Luckhoff via email about the deal , NicheStreem , and its future . Ventureburn : How much was invested in the company when started and how was it funded ? Catherine Luckhof : NicheStreem raised $ 250k in angel funding from a combination of local and international angels in January 2015 and the team started full time on 1 March of the same year . Our seed round opened in November 2016 . We are raising $ 1.5-million . VB : How did the investment come about ? CL : Media24 reached out to us to learn more about Liedjie and explore whether there was any potential to collaborate . This led to a discussion about our funding requirements , the terms of the seed round we had opened and their potential involvement as a strategic partner . Media24 is committed to guaranteed media exposure to help drive user uptake for NicheStreem streams starting with Liedjie -- this will ultimately translate into a 10% stake in the company . VB : Who own the other 90% of the company ? CL : I own the majority stake with the remainder apportioned to founding team members , our advisory board and our angel investors . We have never publicly released the names of our angels to protect their privacy , but what I can tell you is that they include seasoned South African , German , British and Turkish entrepreneurs , family ( my father ) and friends . Media24 is our first institutional investor . VB : What will the investment be used for ? CL : 12 - 18 months run way ( sic ) with the goal of breaking even with our first stream , Liedjie.com , and launching a beta version of a second stream . VB : How does NicheStreem compete against services like Google Play Music ? CL : Services such as Google Music , Spotify , Apple Music and Deezer , aka mass market streaming services , offer near identical catalogues with similar features at almost exactly the same price point . In other words , they compete for the same user . Smaller and cheaper services with lower overheads , focused marketing strategies and market relevant play - listing attract users who have either never heard of or considered streaming , or who are n't prepared to pay $ 10 per month . For NicheStreem the sweet spot lies in the space where the music and the culture are intrinsically ( linked ) , hence we focus on culturally relevant streams for markets that are under - served by existing ( all - you - can - eat ) AYCE players . Further reading : Why niche is the next streaming frontier , Mark Mulligan for Music Industry Blog . VB : Does Liedjie attract listeners from outside South Africa ? CL : It does , however , the service is not currently available outside of SA due to content licensing restrictions . We aim to make it available in Namibia , the UK , Australia and New Zealand within the next six to eight months . VB : What are the biggest challenges in running a service like this ? CL : Old school thinking and fear of change . VB : Will NicheStreem be looking at other funding in the future ? CL : In all likelihood , we will raise an A Round to facilitate the launch and roll out of a third , fourth and fifth stream .