The health care industry is undergoing a lot of uncertainty and challenges right now -- from rising healthcare costs , an influx of patients and more -- and medical professionals are struggling to provide patients the care they need . There are , however , several advances in both medical technology and personal health that some innovative startups are using to help solve those problems .    Dave Willis , Chief Strategy Officer for Clarius Mobile Health , a provider of mobile ultrasound units , explains how entrepreneurs and healthcare startups can help solve this problem .   " In the past , the challenging logistics and exorbitant cost made it difficult for hospitals to purchase multiple ultrasound machines . The medical device industry responded to those pain points by creating mobile versions that are truly detailed and accurate , enabling practitioners to use the technology easier and more effectively . " Other innovators like Sensodx and RHealth have created mobile health devices that require little more than a drop of blood to help speed up the diagnoses of various diseases . The reason mobile healthcare technologies are so revolutionary is because they are easier to deploy and they make critical health care evaluations more affordable . Much like mobile smartphones revolutionized the computing world , mobile medical devices are changing the way the industry delivers care . Willis explains how mobile health solutions will continue to evolve , " The current mobile healthcare devices are just the beginning . We can expect an increase in the number of devices that leverage miniaturized , mobile , and smart technologies that function with extreme accuracy to improve access and reduce costs . " The companies that capitalize on this growing demand for mobile solutions will likely see incredible growth . More importantly , it will be much easier for patients to receive treatment . Mobile health applications are on the rise , and the growing popularity of personal fitness trackers is helping people take preventative health measures by using the power of biometric data . Personal health is not the only use for these devices and apps either -- a growing number of physicians are using apps to track patient biometrics while they are away from the office , hospital , etc . These apps increase the quality of information sharing between doctors and patients , and they provide valuable insights into a patient 's well - being . Previously , doctors were only able to evaluate biometric data collected at the office , leaving significant blind spots that limited the potential accuracy of their diagnoses . Don Jones of Qualcomm Life describes it as an opportunity to " give people dashboards , gauges and alarm signals " about their health on a daily basis . More and more exciting technologies are being researched all the time . External devices are the innovation that is driving change today , and they will continue to do so for some time , but the next wave in healthcare tech will be devices that function as internal medical support . Some of these technologies ( like nanotechnology ) are more concept than reality at this point , but others are already in development . An important precursor to internal nanotechnology for medical use is ingestible sensors . One such sensor , Proteus , is ingestible and tracks whether or not patients are keeping up with medication regimens . Internal devices may also help increase the quantity of data doctors have access to , much like wearables . While the industry struggles to find solutions for funding and insurance , these innovators are creating solutions that will inevitably improve the quality and reduce the cost of care for patients . Willis shares , " Innovation in healthcare technology , particularly on the mobile front , are helping medical professionals reduce the cost of care , both for the patient and the hospital . As the industry continues to adopt these technologies , it will be able to fulfill previously unmet patient needs . " Ayodeji Onibalusi is an inbound marketing expert and advocate of high quality digital marketing . He has over five years of experience helping companies create winning content distribution strategies . You can check out his company ...