The South African Breweries ( SAB ) Foundation is calling on social entrepreneurs who are involved in assisting disadvantaged South Africans , to apply for its Social Innovation and Disability Empowerment Awards . The awards are split into two categories : The application process opens early next month and can be completed by visiting the SAB Foundation website . " We define social innovation as innovation that demonstrates both a sustainable business model and a measurable social impact , " said SAB Foundation director Bridgit Evans in a press release to Ventureburn . Once the application process has been concluded , a panel of judges will be assessing the entrants to evaluate whether or not they 're innovative and applicable to the lives of the disadvantaged . Once the judges have gone through applications , the best 25 applicants will be selected who will then be invited to attend a two - day workshop in September . Participants will then be asked to present their solutions and products to the judges . Based on the presentations , the judges will select the final winners who will be announced at an awards ceremony on 19 October . " In the past seven years of the Social Innovation Awards we have been impressed with the quality and calibre of ideas and businesses that we have been presented with , over many fields and industries , including health , education , environment , community cohesion and more , " said Evans . The awards ' prize money ranges from R150,000 to R1.2-million , additional prizes may also be awarded on the night of the ceremony at the judges ' discretion . In addition to the prizes , each winner will be evaluated on a case - by - case basis and be placed into a programme with a specially selected mentor and technical expert . " We hope to see many more applicants entering this year , so we can help take their ideas to the next level , " said Evans . Previous winner , Thato Kgatlhanye from Repurpose Schoolbags said the SAB Foundation gave her startup seed capital to invest in machinery and train staff in the pilot and prototyping phase of the innovation . " The funding helped us establish operations in buying quality machinery that we are still using to this day . Our operations grew , we moved from a 50sqm factory to a 200sqm factory , and we currently export product lines to countries such as Austria , UK and Turkey . " Featured image via YouTube