Studying the features of mainstream coworking spaces often reveals a homogeneous mass of techy offices and decked out facilities , with the only key variation being the prestige or type of businesses who operate there .   Looking to separate itself from the pack by constructing a diversified coworking space with a focus on social facilities and collaboration is Sydney space Work Club .   Helmed by CEO Soren Trampedach , the " lifestyle " coworking space seeks to offer Australian startups of varying size and industry an opportunity to extend beyond their comfort zone and branch towards innovating new ideas . Originating in Sydney in 2014 and now also operating in Melbourne , Work Club was designed with all the traditional elements of a mainstream coworking space in mind before being meshed together with social facilities .   Of course , Work Club does hold all the expected facilities that you would expect to see in a coworking space , including desks , presentation rooms , meeting rooms , and event spaces .   " Our areas facilitate the traditional coworking areas but we also tried to mix it up a bit . For example , the facilities have been designed so you move around , " said Trampedach .   Taking the desk and computing areas as an example , Work Club does n't offer its residents many fixed spaces to operate in . Businesses ca n't claim an area or string of desks for themselves , but rather are encouraged to move to a new one each day .   Desks themselves are limited in numbers too , with the idea of pushing residents to use the facilities or share an area in mind .   Since the space is underpinned by collaboration , a number of these facilities are designed for social purposes and include eating spaces , entertainment areas and a bar .   This diversity in facilities is so widespread that the founder said about 40 percent of people use these spaces purely as a social place to come together and meet , while 60 percent come to work . " We want everyone who comes into the space to be immersed in a new experience and have both options in order to facilitate people to talk and communicate , " explained Trampedach . The idea of creating a diverse coworking space came from a rather unique place , as the founder , who previously designed spaces for Microsoft and Google , had a fascination with how Leonardo Di Vinci worked during the renaissance period . " I have a theory derived from Leonardo Di Vinci , who worked in Florence , which was the centre of the world in terms of cultures and new ideas coming together . He was very calculative or conscious about who he surrounded himself with , because he felt that diversity in his local network elevated the quality of his work , " Trampedach said . He used this concept to try to make Work Club different from the traditional coworking model and encourage entrepreneurs of all " sorts and ages together " , without feeling like the space was designed for a specific industry or level of business . By bringing these startups together and truly encouraging them to interact , Trampedach believes that businesses will be more likely to innovate . " If you work in isolation you 're less likely to find answers and ideas . But if you move outside of your normal industry or space , you 're more likely to find a different perspective , " he said .   Residents who join are exposed to a training program in order to educate them on how to effectively use the space . Work Club also holds three to four events per week where residents are given the opportunity to present on a different topic . The startup 's flagship event , Florence Guild , runs once a week and covers topics often based on a monthly or weekly theme with the purpose of encouraging attendees to think outside the box . These events run free of charge for Work Club residents sitting on the higher - end packages of approximately $ 1250 a month . The lower end packages start from $ 200 a month and are designed to give solo entrepreneurs a financially viable option . This fee serves as the company 's core revenue stream , with Trampedach self - funding the business from its inception . While Trampedach did have discussions with investors , he ended up deciding to do it on his own to ensure it was his true vision that was brought to life .   " Sitting down and convincing others who do n't have the same idea as you just makes you want to sit down and do it yourself , " said Trampedach . Despite this , Trampedach said he may seek out investment opportunities in the future to further scale the business . Work Club 's Sydney location has been full for over a year and the company has grown its network through reciprocal arrangements with global spaces .   The next year will see the business focusing on developing its existing areas , particularly with the recent introduction of a new after - hours initiative introduced at the end of last year . Trampedach said this new project has been designed to help provide opportunities for people working full time in corporate roles to develop a project they have in mind on the side . " A lot of these people want to start their own project and move out of their corporate job . These after hours allows these people the time and space to come in and work on their projects , as well as interact with others who are in the same boat they are , " said Trampedach .