Being scrappy is a trait that every startup founder needs to embrace to find different ways to solve problems while building one 's business . Adam Lyons , cofounder of The Zebra , said in our Tech . Co interview that being scrappy is at the heart of their culture . " I think it 's critical , you 're going to get told no a lot , you 're going to look at a problem the same way everyone has looked at it , and if you 're not scrappy or think outside the box , then you 're never going to figure it out , " Adam said . Adam is the atypical tech founder . He did n't go straight into an ivy league or have ties to Silicon Valley . In fact , he was a high school drop - out who eventually found his way back to Temple college and land a position working at Lloyds of London and fell in love with insurance . Adam wanted to find a solution for consumers to find car insurance online and built The Zebra , the Kayak for auto insurance , and has provided 3.5 million drivers with customized quotes and has relationships with over 40 top insurance companies . Being scrappy helped him land the attention of Mark Cuban and Mark Maples who placed an additional $ 17 M into the company , bringing their total investment to over $ 21M. Adam also attributes his success to having solid mentors , including Mark Cuban , that help him maneuver through a heavily regulated industry . In my interview , Adam talks about the need to stay scrappy , building a company in a regulated sector to build The Zebra , the importance of relationship , and advice to startups raising capital . Austin has a city motto of " Keep Austin Weird . "   In that spirit , I asked Adam about how he keeps it weird and in doing so stays true to himself .   Read more about raising capital here at Tech . Co   This SXSW video series is brought you by .ME , which gives a truly personal tone to your domain name with its unforgettable meaning and word combination possibilities . Let .ME be the go to place for your online business or blog for people to learn about you . Learn more at www.stayweirdwith.me .