Qurious , a startup that boosts sales teams ' performance by improving the quality of conversations , is marking its official launch . The platform learns directly from teams ' highest performing members and provides real - time battlecards during calls to help close deals . Qurious shows real - time battlecards in response to customer 's questions and objections while a sales call is happening . The AI platform leverages real - time speech recognition , dialogue management , and integrates with CRM , soft - phones , dialers and web conferencing . Qurious models the back and forth of the conversation , analyzing what 's being said and how it 's said . When Qurious detects a trigger during a phone call , such as a buying signal or objection from the customer , it shows a contextually relevant battlecard to the salesperson to help guide the conversation as it 's happening . If a salesperson is rambling , for example , Qurious nudges the salesperson to stop talking and ask a question . " We recognized the need for this product as we began our career selling natural language processing software into enterprises , " said Sabrina Atienza , Qurious ' CEO and co - founder . " Selling was hard . It 's difficult to remember exactly what to say and when ; there 's no way to track what works . We have seen many startups collapse due to failure to scale sales cost - effectively . We wanted to create real - time voice A.I. to help salespeople ramp faster , win more deals , and be able to iterate on what 's actually working . " Qurious is solving how to scale revenue cost - effectively , reducing training time to weeks and boosting top - line revenue . With today 's approaches , it is very difficult to make training stick . Companies create scripts or playbooks , but they 're outdated as soon as they 're created . Also , they 're hard to use when you 're on the phone with a customer because you have to search the document to find what to say . Qurious applies real - time voice Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) to help every salesperson leverage proven best practices on every call . Each battlecard is tracked and linked to outcomes , so teams can see what 's actually working and A / B test different battlecards . Additionally , for small or new sales teams , the platform offers best practice templates so your team can use something that has been proven to work . " Playbooks are painful to build and very tedious to maintain , " explained co - founder and CTO George Ramonov . " By continuously analyzing your customer 's questions and which responses are most effective , we give sales teams real - time content development . If a new question comes up , Qurious adds a battlecard to your playbook , so your playbooks evolve with your GTM strategy and are always effective . " For businesses , sales training is a money blackhole . In 2015 , almost $ 2.5 billion was spent , globally , on sales training . While this is no doubt a hefty sum , the rate at which this training is forgotten is phenomenal . Within 30 days of sales training - at a conference , for example - 79 percent of what was taught is forgotten . Since almost 1 in 8 full - time workers in the US are sales professionals , this problem is massive . Qurious fixes this problem by providing on - the - go , real - time battlecards for sales teams on every single call , powered by voice A.I. Atienza added , " By improving the quality of conversations with buyers , we improve sales productivity and effectiveness for sellers , including their profit margins and growth rates . "   