New entrepreneurs have big dreams , but there are many things that can stand in the way of bringing their vision to fruition . This is n't surprising when you consider that entrepreneurs who have already been involved in multiple startups can still make the same mistakes . The reality is that getting a startup off the ground takes a lot of hard work , the right amount of capital , the dedication and patience to work through a long list of unexpected challenges . Whether you 're hoping to launch your first company or your tenth , it 's a wise idea to better prepare yourself for the challenges ahead . Are you fully prepared for the stress and emotional toll of launching a startup ? Personal relationships can suffer greatly when an entrepreneur starts a new business . This is because there 's often the misconception that the only way to be successful is to spend an exorbitant amount of time working , especially during the first year . Although it 's important to give a lot of time and energy to your project , you also need to prioritize your physical and mental health . Working non - stop is highly stressful , and stress has been proven to kill . Avoid emotional burnout and fractured relationships by learning how to balance your work and home lives . You 've gone over your budget with a fine - toothed comb , and you 're confident you 've considered every possible issue that could arise . Suddenly , you discover that something as routine but essential as an IT project has put everything out of whack . Hidden costs pop up everywhere , so you need to be very generous with your budgeting process . You can also reduce a lot of stress and heartache by carefully considering industry statistics . You may believe that hiring the right team is as simple as selecting highly qualified people for each open position . However , the hunt for your teammates should actually be a lot more nuanced than that . Yes , the first candidate may look slightly better on paper , but do they share your vision as much as the second one ? Are they cooperative or combative by nature ? Will they fit in well with the other members of your team ? These are all questions you need to ask yourself before you hire someone . Ideally , you 'll want people who share your passion and can fit in nicely with the workplace culture you prefer . Choosing this approach may take longer , but your patience will be rewarded . Crowdfunding has become the major capital funding source of choice for many entrepreneurs . There are numerous success stories to emulate , but it 's vital to be aware that many more of these campaigns fail . Therefore , if you 're putting all of your eggs into the crowdfunding basket , you 're setting yourself up for failure . If you 're still committed to the idea of crowdfunding , you need to be prepared to face several related challenges . Choosing the right platform is step one . If you do n't properly do your due diligence here , you might as well not bother to launch a campaign at all . After finding the right platform , you 'll still need to work hard at building interest . Make sure you fully understand what a crowdfunding campaign entails before you try to rely on one for financial assistance . Perhaps the most important thing you need to prepare yourself for is rejection . Mark Cuban and " Shark Tank " showcase that even a good idea can be met with a " no " for a large number of reasons . This is something that you will almost certainly need to get used to if you want to acquire funding or convince stores to carry your new products . Remember : Cuban has regretted saying " no " at least once . Even if several potential investors pass , this does n't mean you wo n't have a successful future , but you do need to be able to bounce back after each rejection . Allow yourself to dream . At the same time , take a realistic look at everything and educate yourself as much as possible . This will help you avoid future issues from major challenges you failed to anticipate .