If you haven't heard , South by Southwest ( SXSW ) is a multi - faceted event with showcases of entertainment , business , and technology . The event happens between March 10 - 19 in Austin and thousands of people from around the world descend on the Texas city to take in the sights , the sounds , and the innovation . The event packs in more than 70,000 participants , vendors , and artists and has 24 tracks , including Tech Industry , Intelligent Future , and Development and Code . And if you want to know how to succeed and survive at this incredibly popular event , you 'll need to learn from the experts . Three entrepreneurs from Albuquerque all made it through SXSW last year . Charles Ashley III , CEO of Cultivating Coders , Michelle Urban , CEO of Pressure Analysis Company , and Antonio Gandara - Martinez , Marketing Advisor for bouncechat and marketing director for boomtime , all took the time to share their top tips on making SXSW a successful event . Check them out below : Hotel rooms book fast and prices are going up . To save a little money , you might want to try an Airbnb and share the space with other startups . Also , keep an eye out for cheap flights because they are also on their way up . SXSW is mass chaos with thousands of people , and just talking to the person standing next to you might turn out to be the perfect connection or turn into something unexpected . Figure out now how you 'll keep all these new contacts organized . Here are a few ideas that might help : Take a photo with your phone and put it on Evernote , or create a Google doc that you can access from your phone and plug that information in right away . Whether it 's early the next morning or a month later , make sure you pull out those business cards and make contact . Remind people who you are and how you met them . You never know what might come from it . Think of pitching as getting a chance to network with everyone in the room . They know who you are and what you do , and if they need a connection , they 'll come talk to you . And if you win the competition , bonus ! SXSW is an incredibly large event . Downloading the app will help you navigate everything with ease . This is especially helpful to keep track of the schedule and getting last minute updates . Businesses from Albuquerque banded together last year and set up their own Slack channel so that everyone could keep in touch and share important information - like " Hey everyone , there 's free tacos , " or " Hey Michelle , there 's someone you need to meet . " Speaking of free tacos , you can save time and money by taking advantage of the free food and drinks all around the event . Just keep your eyes and ears open for deals and you 'll save a boatload . Many of the buildings that are used for the event will have something going on .