Over the past two days , 20 companies have taken the stage at TechCrunch 's Startup Battlefield , where they presented their products and took questions from our expert judges . Now , with the help of those judges , we 've selected five startups to compete tomorrow in the Battlefield finals . They are : Collider 's flagship printer Orchid , which is still in a production - prototype stage , makes metal objects that are on par with those that are injection - molded . Its compact , safe and affordable enough for use in offices or labs . Domuso provides more flexible rental terms for tenants , while helping property owners and managers to more efficiently collect rent . Its platform includes faster processing for the rent payments that are made on time , as well as installment loans for renters who are going to having trouble making those payments . NuCypher is selling enterprises a specialized encryption layer that enhances their ability to perform big data analytics while tapping into the cloud . Its slogan : body armor for big data . RecordGram aims to be a mobile recording studio where aspiring artists can find beats , create songs and get signed . It was co - founded by Grammy - winning music producer Winston " DJ Blackout " Thomas ; Erik Mendelson , a veteran of radio and digital music ; and hip - hop 's Shawn Mims , who is best known for his song " This is Why I 'm Hot . " Sunrise Health is a new startup aiming to improve mental healthcare by combining the constant support of group chat , the openness afforded by anonymity , the guidance of professional therapists and the safeguard of artificial intelligence watching for abuse and emergencies . It 's launched a beta version of its group chat therapy app that 's free for patients , and licensed as software - as - a - service to healthcare providers . The finals will start at 11 am Eastern tomorrow , May 17 , and we 'll be livestreaming them right here on TechCrunch . Also , if you 're part of a startup , applications for Disrupt SF are open .