Soundtrack co - founders Andreas Liffgarden and Ola Sars . Photo via Soundtrack Your Brand .   A Spotify - backed company that gives businesses legal and data - driven background music is raising more cash to help expand its operations . Soundtrack Your Brand today announced a $ 22 million round led by Industrifonden and Balderton Capital . The Stockholm - based company will use the fresh cash to grow its platform across the globe -- including in the Seattle region , where it opened a sales office this past May and employs eight people . Founded in 2013 by music industry vets Ola Sars and Andreas Liffgarden , Soundtrack Your Brand aims to create " the first truly modern streaming service for businesses . " Traditionally , many businesses play background music with CDs or satellite feeds , and some never report what they play to rights holders . Soundtrack Your Brand offers a platform that utilizes consumer insights and data analytics to provide brand - centric playlists with licensed music . It is now active in more than 100 countries worldwide and saw its revenue and user base grow by nearly 400 percent over the past year . " Background music today is sold as a utility , and there 's rarely much thought going into what music brands are playing and why , " Liffgarden said in a statement . " Today 's background music sucks for brands and consumers alike , and it 's hurting the music industry at large . As lovers of music and technology , we 're completely overhauling this industry , to once and for all kill bad background music . " Before launching the company , Sars helped start Beats Music ( acquired by Apple for $ 3 billion ) while Liffgarden led Spotify 's business development team . Soundtrack Your Brand is based in Stockholm -- where consumer music streaming giant Spotify , an early investor in the startup , also has its HQ -- but expanded its footprint across the pond last year to Seattle . Jody McKinley , Soundtrack Your Brand 's managing director of North America , told GeekWire that the company picked Seattle for its North American home base because of the region 's talent . It plans to add another four employees to the office this year . " We were drawn to the concentration of talent in the area -- from licensing , music curators , sales , operations and tech -- that bridges commercial and consumer subscription services and is extremely valuable to a business like ours , " he said . Soundtrack Your Brand employs 65 people in total , with its main engineering team based Stockholm and an additional sales team in London . Total funding for the company is now more than $ 40 million . As a result of the new funding , Lars Fjeldsoe - Nielsen , previously head of mobile for Uber and Dropbox , is joining the board , along with Industrifonden investment manager and music entrepreneur Johan Englund .