Inspiration , passion and confidence are just a few of the benefits you stand to gain from making meaningful connections with like - minded individuals . The old proverb , " Show me your friends and I 'll tell you who you are , " translates into surrounding yourself with the right people . As a startup founder , surrounding yourself with like - minded entrepreneurs can have a major impact on your own success and that of your business . Unfortunately , entrepreneurs often fail to seek out others for a variety of reasons , including fear , inadequacy , or exhaustion . Associating yourself with other successful entrepreneurs goes a long way . Here 's what you can stand to gain by proactively seeking out other entrepreneurs : Spending time with like - minded entrepreneurs has a direct impact on your mindset . By seeking out other business owners and entrepreneurs like yourself , regardless of what industry or market they happen to be in , you 'll get fired up about being an entrepreneur . And if you see them succeed in their passion , your passion will be fueled even more . If you think about big - name stars , they usually talk about the day they got their " big break . " For entrepreneurs and young business owners , this " big break " is about making the right connections . Spending time with other entrepreneurs opens the door to connecting with even more influential people and getting your name out there . It can also lead to business referrals or joint business ventures . Being supportive and lending a helping hand is key to showing value to fellow entrepreneurs . You wo n't be handed a business referral or an opportunity by pestering people . They must feel like you are ready to help them before they 'll think of you when they meet someone that needs your product or service . If you 're engaging with entrepreneurs , you will learn from them at a much faster rate than you would learn on your own . The typical entrepreneur learns by trial and error . Failing is a normal process of learning how to do something better . But learning about it from someone who 's been there can save you time and money in the long run . The value of shortening your learning curve is huge . Making connections with other entrepreneurs can be a challenge . Busy schedules and hectic lifestyles do n't make it easy to connect . However , the value of making those connections and nurturing those relationships is priceless . Go out of your way to seek like - minded entrepreneurs and you 'll be surprised at how much you can gain . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .