Australia is a huge market for Airbnb , with NSW a particularly strong growth centre . It 's so popular , in fact , that a report released by Deloitte earlier this year found Sydney had jumped from 10th in the ranking of top cities for the platform in 2015 , to 5th in 2016 . According to the report , NSW boasted 38,000 property listings on Airbnb in 2016 , with 60,000 across Australia . With those numbers in mind , it 's no surprise that a whole new genre of startups has emerged to support the growth of Airbnb and its competitors : the Airbnb management startup . One of the latest to hit the scene is Hometime , founded by Dave Thompson , a former investment banker , and William Crock , who has a background in engineering project management . The startup has created an Airbnb management and housekeeping services business to , as Thompson puts it , " make Airbnb stress - free " . He explained , " Speak to any Airbnb host and they will tell you what a pleasure it is to share their home with others and that the financial rewards are significant . However , it can also be a full time job ; five - star reviews are crucial when it comes to maintaining occupancy , and this is no easy task . " Hometime looks to help hosts " put their Airbnb properties on autopilot " by handling each aspect of the hosting experience . As Thompson pointed out , service is crucial to Airbnb , with guests often expecting a bed and breakfast - type stay , however the average host has neither the time nor the expertise to provide that kind of experience to guests , and that 's where Hometime wants to come in . The idea came from , as you might have guessed , the founders using Airbnb themselves . Thompson said he ran into trouble when he attempted to manage his Airbnb listing remotely while on this honeymoon - there 's a lot involved in the process of receiving guests that 's hard to do when you 're not near your property , from simply handing over keys to cleaning , restocking supplies , and changing sheets . Returning home , he went through the idea with Crock and they decided to leave their jobs and build on it . Currently available in Sydney , Melbourne , and Perth , Hometime works via a host platform and a vendor portal for contractors who perform the various services offered by the startup , which are split across simple housekeeping or full management of a listing . For the latter , the service starts with chatting with the host to understand what kinds of guests they want to accept - no pets allowed , for example - and how much they want to be earning , and then creating a listing . Here , a photographer can come and take photos of the property , with Hometime then listing the property across various booking platforms , its ' unique pricing data ' working to optimise the listed price at different times . From there , the housekeeping and maintenance comes in . Clients can choose to either have housekeepers change the sheets and towels , putting the dirty ones in the laundry basket , or using Hometime 's linens . According to Thompson , service providers , or vendors , undergo police checks before being onboarded onto Hometime . Through the app they can accept jobs as per their own availability , while the host is able to check in on guests accepted and services performed through their own portal . Thompson claimed the startup has conducted " thousands of services " across hundreds of properties around Australia since it launched in 2015 , saying it has seen growth of 20 percent month on month over the past six months . " We have found a lot of clients begin using us for our housekeeping and then convert to using Hometime for full property management once we 've built up their trust levels , " he said . The service has three pricing levels , with the fee for stand alone , one - off housekeeping services dependent on the type of property . On the management side , Hometime allows clients to pay a ' shared success fee ' of 15 percent of a booking , or pay a monthly rate in exchange for having a property fully managed and getting a payout of a set rate each month . Again , given the growth of Airbnb , Hometime is n't the only startup offering these kinds of services . Among its competitors are MadeComfy , while UK outfit Airsorted also recently launched in Sydney , its first expansion market outside the UK . The market is already significant and is sure to keep growing in NSW in particular , with the state government last month stating it will allow property owners to rent out private rooms and entire homes via Airbnb on a short term basis , as well as allowing short term rental of empty properties , such as investment properties . Having raised $ 500,000 in funding last year , Hometime is focused on growing its service and expanding throughout Australia .