JOB TODAY , a tech startup on its way to become Europe 's leading mobile jobs marketplace , today announced a media deal which will help the company to grow even faster . The Luxembourg - based startup has made a bet on digitizing recruitment with its mobile - first approach , doing away with clunky CVs , and introducing a built - in messaging platform to make communication between employers and applicants more immediate . In the short time since launch in 2015 , JOB TODAY attracted two 200 K employers , processed 35 million job applications , and brought on board world - class investors . The jobs marketplace just announced a $ 35 million gross media deal with Europe 's major broadcasters represented by RTL Germany , German Media Pool , and Atresmedia . RTL Group owns RTL Germany and holds a strategic minority shareholding in Atresmedia . With interests in 60 television channels and 31 radio stations , RTL Group reaches audiences around the world and owns stakes in TV channels and radio stations in Germany , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Luxembourg , Spain , Hungary , Croatia and South East Asia . This new partnership builds on a successful earlier investment in JOB TODAY by Atresmedia in Spain , as well as an investment by Channel 4 ( UK ) . Polina Montano , COO of JOB TODAY , stated : " Finding a job is a vital necessity for millions of youths and general population all across Europe . It 's about time we leverage technology to solve a very human problem . We 're disrupting a $ 270 billion global blue collar recruitment market , most of which is still offline , and the incumbents simply can not respond quickly enough . " Over one million job applications are submitted to local employers via the company 's apps every single week . JOB TODAY 's mobile apps have become popular with small businesses such as restaurants and shops ; the service has also attracted some of the biggest brands including McDonald 's , EAT , Pizza Express , Holiday Inn and Benefit Cosmetics . With support from the leading broadcasters in the UK , Germany , and Spain , JOB TODAY is in a unique position to accelerate its Pan - European growth . JOB TODAY was founded in 2014 and has previously raised a total of $ 30 million from Accel Partners , Mangrove Capital , Flint Capital , and others .