Presented by K - Startup Grand Challenge 2017 Last August , PK Mishra boarded a Korea - bound plane from San Francisco , along with his co - founder at Fingertips Lab , Ben Park . After a successful crowdfunding campaign for their in - car Bluetooth controller , Mishra and Park , who spent his early years in Korea , needed a manufacturer that could meet their demands for precision and quality . " The O6 control dial needs to look and feel at home in a luxury car . Most OEMs ca n't handle our demands or give us confidence in their manufacturing process . The ones in Korea are a cut above , " Park said . What 's notable in this story is n't that Fingertips Lab found an OEM in Korea . Thousands of companies do that each year . It 's that the Korean government paid their team to come to Seoul for three months of expenses - paid acceleration , investor matchmaking and mentoring , as part of a program called the K - Startup Grand Challenge . In its inaugural year , the government - backed accelerator selected 40 startups looking to expand in Asia . Since then , those companies have secured over $ 5.5 M in local and international investments , signed 30 contracts and 120 MOUs , and filed numerous patents . A striking 70 percent established a legal entity in Korea and 80 percent had a local member join their team during the program . Fingertips Lab went on to win first place at the program 's demo day , receiving a $ 100,000 grant and follow - on investment from 500 Startups and local angels . They also opened negotiations with Hyundai Motors , the world 's fourth - largest automaker , along with Korea - based distributors . Through June 7th , organizers are accepting applications for batch two of the K - Startup Grand Challenge .   Apply for the K - Startup Grand Challenge This year they 've expanded the program to include 50 startups and four months of acceleration . Startups selected will receive $ 12,000 to cover living expenses over four months , plus funding towards round - trip flights to Korea . Non - financial incentives include office space and prototyping facilities in a $ 160 million startup campus , located within walking distance of many Korean tech giants like Kakao and Naver , and a 14 minute subway ride from Gangnam . " Our time in Korea was more valuable than I could have guessed , " said Jazz Tan , Founder and CEO of Malaysia - based startup YouthsToday . During her stay in Korea , Tan signed agreements with numerous universities and student organizations , giving her access to more than 600,000 university students in Korea . This gave YouthsToday , a platform that helps students secure corporate sponsorship for events , its first foothold in a foreign country . " As a startup , we could n't have afforded the cost or risk of expansion without the support the Korean government provided , " Tan said . " We were even able to hire a local manager and an intern to look after the business in Korea when I returned to Malaysia . " Preksh , the runner up at the 2016 Demo Day , registered a patent in Korea for its unique augmented reality solution and are in the process of signing a deal with a major retailer , which serves more than one million shoppers per week . Fourth place winner , Imagga makes a powerful image recognition API . While in Korea they collaborated with KIA Motors and they are still leveraging the network formed during the program to grow their business in Asia . Nathan Millard , whose company , G3 Partners , is working to support the K - Startup Grand Challenge , has witnessed the development of Korea 's startup ecosystem over the past five years . " When I started working with Korean startups in 2012 , there were few signs that Seoul had potential as a regional startup hub . Just a few years later there 's a thriving ecosystem and some great local success cases , in part fueled by support from both the private and public purse , " he explained . Millard believes that Korea serves as an optimal test market for expansion in Asia , thanks to a confluence of factors . " Korea is safe and stable . Koreans are tech - savvy and open to foreign brands . Korea also provides easy access to over 2 billion potential customers in Asia just a short flight away , " he said . " And did I mention that Korea boasts the among the world 's fastest mobile internet speeds and that 88% of Koreans own a smartphone ? " Korea is also home to global brands like Samsung , LG and Hyundai who have signed on to support K - Startup Grand Challenge . On account of the nation 's manufacturing heritage tech talent is abundant and 64% of Koreans hold a university degree . This presents startups with a fertile recruiting ground . Bloomberg also ranked Korea No . 1 in its annual innovation lists in 2015 and 2016 . Tech startups that are less than five years old and have an MVP ( minimum viable product ) , can apply online for this year 's K - Startup Grand Challenge by June 7 . The program kicks off in the fall . Sponsored posts are content produced by a company that is either paying for the post or has a business relationship with VentureBeat , and they 're always clearly marked . Content produced by our editorial team is never influenced by advertisers or sponsors in any way . For more information , contact sales@venturebeat.com .