FCC Chairman Ajit Pai on Wednesday proposed a reversal of existing net neutrality rules that were instituted in 2015 . The rules reclassified broadband internet service providers as public utilities in an effort to create a more open internet , not weighted to those entities that could pay more to receive faster service . Led by Engine , Techstars and Y Combinator , more than 800 members of the tech community , including Chartbeat , Etsy , Medium and Matter Ventures , signed their names to an open letter protesting the move . Read the full letter below . The Honorable Ajit PaiChairman Federal Communications Commission445 12th Street SWWashington , DC 20554 Chairman Pai : As a group of startups , entrepreneurs , investors , and the organizations who support them from all 50 states , we were excited to hear about your recent regional tour with startups and innovators and learn about your plans to drive better , faster broadband deployment across the U.S. During your tour , you noted that " High - speed Internet access , or broadband , is giving rise to what I have called the democratization of entrepreneurship . With a powerful plan and a digital connection , you can raise capital , start a business , immediately reach a worldwide customer base , and disrupt an entire industry . " We could n't agree more . Each of our businesses is an example of the sort of innovation and investment that meaningful broadband access has fueled . But the success of America 's startup ecosystem depends on more than improved broadband speeds . We also depend on an open Internet -- including enforceable net neutrality rules that ensure big cable companies ca n't discriminate against people like us . We 're deeply concerned with your intention to undo the existing legal framework . Without net neutrality , the incumbents who provide access to the Internet would be able to pick winners or losers in the market . They could impede traffic from our services in order to favor their own services or established competitors . Or they could impose new tolls on us , inhibiting consumer choice . Those actions directly impede an entrepreneur 's ability to " start a business , immediately reach a worldwide customer base , and disrupt an entire industry . " Our companies should be able to compete with incumbents on the quality of our products and services , not our capacity to pay tolls to Internet access providers . Fortunately , in 2015 the Federal Communications Commission put in place light touch net neutrality rules that not only prohibit certain harmful practices , but also allow the Commission to develop and enforce rules to address new forms of discrimination . We are concerned by reports that you would replace this system with a set of minimum voluntary commitments , which would give a green light for Internet access providers to discriminate in unforeseen ways . Rather than dismantling regulations that allow the startup ecosystem to thrive , we urge you to focus instead on policies that would promote a stronger Internet for everyone . We applaud efforts to remove unnecessary barriers to construction of new networks , which would foster increased competition and faster , more affordable , open Internet access . We appreciate your consideration and stand at the ready to provide insights that support this work . Nina Zipkin is a staff writer at Entrepreneur.com . She frequently covers media , tech , startups , culture and workplace trends .