Sole proprietors , or solopreneurs , represent many small businesses throughout the United States and across the globe . In America alone , more than a third of the entire workforce engaged in some kind of independent work in 2015 -- a growth of 700,000 workers compared to 2014 . More than 10 million people rely on freelance gigs for more than half of their total income . Considering how easy it can be to waste hours of your precious time , arming yourself with the right tools can help you reach your full productivity potential : Due is a free digital wallet that enables you to process payments online . Though relatively new in the digital payment space , its simple features make it a lot easier to use than some of its competitors . Every transaction that you initiate is encrypted and tracked for potential fraud .   Using   next - generation technology , Due lets you secure your funds so that your personal data is always protected . Due allows users to embed one of their invoices ( you can customize it ) on your website -- so that clients will feel more confident to pay you directly from your website . The pricing is clear : a 2.8 percent transaction fee on domestic and global credit card processing . As if that was n't enough , there 's no setup or hidden fees and you receive funds in one or two business days . Fuze is a unified communications tool for teams . Whether you 're working with 5 people or 50 , , you can power every aspect of your businesses ' communication in real - time . You can experience seamless communications across desktop and mobile platforms . It comes with voice , video , and messaging features to ensure that your projects actually work . Fuze also aids organizations to host meetings in a corporate environment or on the go . Though the pricing may be on the high side , keep in mind that you get what you pay for . Efficiency does n't always come cheap . What we 're looking at here is a tool that simplifies real - time collaboration , multi - party video , and full duplex audio , as well as integrates with other third - party tools such as Microsoft Outlook , Google Calendar , and Lync . Honestly , what more can you ask for ? BrightPod is a web - based project management and time - tracking software . Think Trello , but geared toward digital marketers and creative teams .   The user - friendly   interface makes tracking tasks , projects , and ideas easier than ever before . For greater efficiency , it 's important to set up a board to manage each stage of your client 's workflow . BrightPod 's features give managers the ability to create an editorial calendar that tracks content and social plans . Assistant.to is a free tool for Gmail and Outlook that allows you to book meetings with a single email . Finally , no more playing email tag and going back and forth with someone . Just install the extension , and click to give access to your calendar . From there , you write an email in Gmail , then add a recipient to the invitation . Tap on the Assistant.to logo at the lower right - hand corner of the screen , and the scheduling window will open . Over time , the platform will start to learn about the most common places and times you schedule meetings , so you can schedule future meetings in a few seconds . In a different time zone than the person you 're meeting with ? No problem , the platform automatically handles that for you . Assistant.to integrates with a number of meeting platforms , like UberConference , Google Hangouts , Join.me , WebEx , and GoToMeeting . When any of these are listed in the location field , all recipients get a unique link . SaneBox allows you to reach the ever - elusive inbox zero in minutes . It works with any email platform . It analyzes everything in your email box and learns what 's important , and what 's not . When the analysis is done , everything that 's not important goes to a folder called " SaneLater " so you can deal with it later when you have time . You can also adjust settings as needed to set reminders , snooze emails , automatically upload attachments to the cloud , see emails sent with no reply , and unsubscribe from mailing lists in seconds . After a 14-day free trial , you can choose plans starting at $ 7/month , with discounts for annual or bi - annual subscriptions . YesWare finally solves the dreaded " Did they read my email ? " problem using email tracking Aside from featuring beautiful and functional email templates , YesWare automatically tracks open and reply rates so you can split - test and learn the emails that get the best results . Plus , you can automate your sales by sending a series of automated follow - up emails to prospects . You can also schedule emails to be sent later , and place phone calls with a click to call feature . After a 14-day free trial , you can sign up for a paid plan with pricing starting at $ 15/user / month , with discounts for annual billing . Zapier is a task automation tool that can shave hours off your week if you 're stuck doing the same things over and over . With hundreds of app integrations , you can connect your apps to automate workflows . For instance , when you get an email with an attachment in Gmail , you can have it automatically upload to Dropbox . When you post an update to Facebook , you can have it automatically post to Twitter . You can create Trello cards using new images in Gmail . There 's a free forever plan , with limited zaps , but the paid plan opens up premium apps and more zaps . Paid plans start at $ 20/month . If you 're on a budget and want a completely free tool , you can use If This Then That . Just keep in mind that   the integrations library wo n't be quite as large , so if there are certain premium apps you use in the course of your business , this might not work for you . But , if you 're using it for basic automation tasks , it 's certainly something to keep in mind . Focus Booster is a tool that makes it easy for freelancers to implement the Pomodoro Technique . That technique involves working in 25-minute spurts , with a five - minute break interval . This is supposed to help clear the mind and make it easier to work through various tasks and keep you focused . The technique is near impossible to implement regularly without carrying a timer around with you , so Focus Booster is the online timer that does it for you . There 's a free plan that allows for 20 sessions a month , so you can try it and see if it works for you . If you find that it works for you and you want to keep using it , you can upgrade to the individual plan for $ 3/month to get 200 sessions a month . If you find that you love it and want to use it all the time , then it 's just $ 5/month for unlimited sessions . Hubstaff is a time - tracking program that includes screenshots , so you can prove to clients you 're working on their project . It also includes the ability to track invoices and payments . If you 're working with a team , you can process their payments with the platform , too . It integrates with several apps , including Basecamp , Wrike , Podio , Insightly , Trello , and GitHub . After a 14-day free trial , pricing starts at $ 5/month with two months free for annual purchases . There 's also a free plan for a single user with limited screenshot storage . Meet Edgar is a simple social media management platform . With it , you can manage your social accounts and double your traffic with social media . It 's an invitation - only platform . Meet Edgar enables you to create and build up a proven library of social posts that can be scheduled to go out every day . You can track how your posts are performing on different social channels . The Pro version that gives your team more advanced features starts at $ 49/month . Yes , it will take a bit of time to set up all these tools , whether you choose to use one or all of them . But once you get them all setup and integrated into your workflow , you 'll be able to spend less time on the administration side of your business , and more time on the money - making side ... and who does n't love that ? Eric Sachs is a self - taught , nationally recognized SEO expert who helps businesses revolutionize their online marketing efforts . He began his career in internet marketing in affiliate work and then as the Director of Marketing for a Souther ...