If you did n't know , New Orleans is a hot bed for innovative startups and budding entrepreneurs . Whether it 's the southern hospitality or the innovative spirit of the bayou , startup founders of all shapes and sizes flock to this southern haven for the support and inspiration you can only expect in somewhere as unique as New Orleans . New Orleans Entrepreneur Week is an innovative showcase of startups and entrepreneurs that call this southern city home . You 'll see everything from philanthropic startups to industry - changing ideas at this conference , along with delicious food and enough culture to make your head spin . I will be judging the Delta Entrepreneurship Network Pitch Competition tomorrow , March 21st at 10 am in hopes of discovering new startups in this burgeoning ecosystem . If you happen to be in the area , come to the Ace Hotel at 10 am to check out some of these innovative startups before they make it it big : Myra Mirrors is currently developing an operating system that will seamlessly integrate information into the surfaces in your home . As a proof of concept we are developing a consumer product , Myra . Myra is a luxury home smart mirror designed to simplify life . EntreLinc offers a solution to large corporations and enterprises , serving their supply chains through smaller businesses that can meet their product and service needs while helping them drive innovation and inclusion . This company develops educational instructions with technical training content that enhances learning and knowledge reinforcement to today 's students , instructors , and training managers . The platform includes tools for analytics , data analysis , job support , technical content research , content recommendations to provide users and clients with assessments and real time feed back . The Lighting Bug , technically called the Light Safety Control Module ( LSCM ) is a new product that assures immediate and automatic recovery from a headlight failure . For less than $ 100 per vehicle and five minutes of installation time , the patented technology in the Lighting Bug can prevent the many negative outcomes by automatically depowering the high - beam to " function " as a low - beam . My Veggie Chef removes the friction of trying to eat healthy by eliminating time wasted on planning , shopping , and chopping . It takes the guess work out of what is healthy . They create a weekly package of 5 plant - based meals of four servings each . Meals are frozen to lock in the freshness . They keep it affordable and ship it directly to your door . Somavac Medical Solutions is creating a wearable suction device for the removal and collection of post - surgical fluids after major surgeries , like mastectomies and hernia repairs , that affects more than 70,000 patients a year in the US alone . Energy H20 is an artesian mineral water company . Their goal is to provide entrepreneurs and consumers with this superior artesian mineral ( alkaline ) water in a Biphenyl a ( BPA ) free , environmentally friendly bottle in various sizes . Kalikoe is a fintech startup is an add - on toll that allows content developers to monetize their social media videos without the need for intrusive ads . Skycision is a world leader in providing decision support to farmers based on proprietary technology which converts aerial imagery to actionable data . Skycision 's technology is world class in diagnosing crop stress , disease , fertilization needs , and other issues farmers face on a weekly and seasonal basis . Cocoa Belle Chocolates creates artisan made chocolate products inspired by Southern desserts for a nostalgic not novelty taste . Cocoa Belle offers monthly subscriptions of curated boxes shipped conveniently to your door . Think Ink Recycling is proposing a plan to divert and reduce waste being dumped at Stones Throw Landfill , and develop a Material Recovery Facility with waste transfer station and a Household Hazardous waste facility . While implementing a curbside service program and recycling drop - off sites for recyclable material . Let 's be honest , the current education puts no emphasis on cooking . Despite the culinary arts being a more than suitable profession , there is a woeful lack of education for these positions . Edible Education fixes this by providing a la cart education for people that want to learn how to cook . Let 's get straight to the point ; Bootsie 's Delta Funk BBQ is here to funk up your food . Handcrafted in the heart of Mississippi , this company provides souther barbecue at it 's very best . There are at least 200,000 mobile technicians that work for car dealers and body shops . Cosmetic CAR TECH 's main goal is to bring underground mobile technicians and the retail market together . Most people do n't know how to find these mobile technicians and , with Cosmetic CAR TECH , they come to you at your convenience . HABERDAShe is a made - to - measure brand for women 's suiting using a virtual fit digital platform . 3D body scanning extracts customer measurements , virtual fitting rooms mimic the weight , and drape of the fabric so the customer can experience the garment on a personal avatar and computer aided design software ( CAD ) allows us to make one garment at a time to each customer 's fit specifications . RaftUp has developed an amazing and fun namesake mobile app for recreational boating which uniquely integrates with a next generation 911 software as as service platform . The mobile application provides end users with the ability to find and add friends , interact with a mobile map with points of interest , and notify and request assistance through an SOS feature that alerts and shares a user 's position in real time to nearby users , friended users , 911 , or an outdoor outfitter business . Read more about the New Orleans startup ecosystem here at Tech . Co