Whether it 's a taxi or a rideshare car , getting into a stranger 's vehicle or welcoming a stranger into yours means ignoring that big warning we were given as children : do n't talk to strangers ! Of course , in the vast majority of cases , everything turns out fine and you get to your destination safely , but for many women in particular , the concern in the back of their mind that something could go wrong is constantly there . As a number of studies show , women are conditioned as children to be more fearful than boys , and they get older concerns centered on violence perpetrated by men dominate . Looking to provide women with peace of mind is Georgina McEncroe and her startup Shebah , a rideshare service for female - identifying drivers and passengers only ( boys to the age of 12 travelling with a woman are welcome ) . " As women , safety preoccupies so much of our mental energy . I teach at TAFE at night and have watched the way the girls in my evening class in winter rally around each other at 9 o'clock , asking who 's taking who to the station , who can give someone else a lift , " McEncroe explained . " Then I had a group of largely male students , class finished , and off they went into the night . Being the mother of three boys and one daughter , I see that even though my sons are statistically more likely to be assaulted by a bloke , they never think about it . " Signing up to be an Uber driver herself , McEncroe considered the prospect of something happening to her and realised that an element of the media and wider community would simply say , what did she expect driving drunk men home from King St at 3 am ? McEncroe never ended up taking on an Uber ride ; talking to other women , she saw many shared similar concerns , which had her wondering about the benefit of the sharing economy if women could n't actually partake in it . " It 's leaving huge number of women out of this incredible opportunity that they should be taking up in their tens of thousands . You would think the majority of rideshare drivers should actually be women , because they can work around children and study , " she said . Of course , there are female taxi drivers and rideshare drivers out there - but speaking to as many as she could find over the last year , McEncroe found that they were n't immune to safety concerns either . " Many are driving the cheap shifts ; very few are driving the most lucrative shifts , and the ones that are are carrying nunchucks , pepper spray ... they've got stories to tell . They 're tough , but they 're still guarded and they 've got really strict rules about passengers , " she said . After a divorce , McEncroe decided it was time to bring Shebah to life . She began the journey last year with an ambitious crowdfunding campaign , trying to raise $ 300,000 . While she did n't reach her goal , McEncroe said the campaign did get her a lot of attention that helped her find people who could help make Shebah a reality . McEncroe worked with development agency Hyper to build the app , with her focus trying to satisfy the desires of the female drivers and passengers she had been speaking to . Chief among the concerns for existing rideshare drivers were a pre - booking feature , the ability to both give to and receive detailed feedback from passengers , and a guarantee they would not be removed as a driver from the service without consultation . The Shebah service and app essentially works much like other rideshare services do - a driver signs onto the app and accepts rides like they would on Uber , for example , while passengers on Shebah can similarly get a fare estimate before requesting a ride . Beyond limiting the service to women , Shebah shows it has been designed with women in mind by allowing passengers to easily pre - book a car with a baby capsule or booster seat for young children ( a feature offered by Uber in the US , though not yet in Australia ) . Drivers will be given an extra fee for carrying child seats . Drivers also have the right to refuse a passenger without penalty if they turn up and feel unsafe , or turn up to find a male waiting with the female passenger . The rideshare space is a difficult one for new players to crack thanks to , of course , Uber . The brand is now well - established in pop culture , with ' Ubered ' and ' Ubering ' now part of the lexicon . Uber 's VC dollars also allow for the discount codes and cheap fares , the main draw for many riders . As such , the pricing of Shebah 's fares will be interesting - I know from speaking to my group of girlfriends that some would pay more for a female Uber driver , while all others are after is the cheap ride . Exact pricing for Shebah is yet to be revealed , but McEncroe is adamant the service will be " competitive " . Shebah will take a 15 percent fee for each ride , with one percent of this to be split between three female - focused charities Shebah is supporting . The service will also give free financial consultations to drivers during the onboarding process , helping them plan for super , sick days , holidays , and so on , with this part of the community feel McEncroe hopes to foster ; Shebah wants to be more than just a rideshare service , but a positive influence and support for women . " We want to the best employer we can be , and make women feel like they 're really part of a community . We want to look after them , and in turn have them treat passengers so well that they feel like they 're coming home , and that there is an army of aunties there to greet them and look after them , " McEncroe said . A few weeks ahead of launch , McEncroe said 1,000 drivers have begun the onboarding process in Queensland , NSW , and Victoria , with around 200 ready to go . Thanks Queensland and NSW regulating ridesharing , much of the onboarding process revolves around satisfying state laws and undertaking state checks , with Shebah then conducting working with children checks and car inspections . Shebah undertakes further checks in Victoria , where regulations around ridesharing are currently being developed . Of the drivers ready or currently being onboarded , McEncroe said the majority are aged around 30 - 60 , many of whom have been driving for their community , doing Meals on Wheels or the like , for some time . As the service grows , McEncroe is hoping to encourage university students to join as drivers and also position Shebah as an option for women looking to get back into the workforce . Shebah will be launching into Sydney , Melbourne , Geelong , Brisbane , and the Gold Coast next month pending testing and approval from the App Store . Having faced criticism from all sides throughout the journey to launch and knowing more will come when the official launch comes , McEncroe said she knows Shebah wo n't be everything to everybody , but nor does she want it to be . " I 've had some amazing , gentle cab drivers over the years and I want them to continue driving , because the purpose of my business is not to disadvantage men - you can give something to women without taking anything away from men , " McEncroe said . " Bringing Shebah into the world will not make men less safe or inconvenience them in any way , it just provides a positive option for some women who might want to use it . Some women wo n't give two figs about Shebah , but for some others it could change their whole way of feeling . "