Updating your website involves more than just rearranging words and pictures on the homepage . Changing your website involves implementing new technology behind the scenes , eliminating dot - com domains and using research to optimize pages to capture your audience 's attention . Just think about your website two , five , 10 years ago . Chances are , it looked quite a bit different from the version you have today . All businesses need to keep up with modern internet technology if they want to maintain their competitive edge . So it 's important to keep an eye on emerging website trends and anticipate how evolving tech will impact the creative direction of your website . Attention spans are shortening and the amount of content living online is growing exponentially , so expect to see data influence the future of your website 's looks and operating systems . Not sure what trends you should be paying attention to ? Here are some examples . When we think of ecommerce , we typically think of logging on to a website store or using a mobile app to do all of our shopping . But virtual reality could be changing how we shop in the very near future . Imagine putting on a VR headset and instead of browsing a flat website catalogue you could be walking through a virtual store or viewing things around a showroom . EBay actually launched what it calls the world 's first virtual reality department store , partnering with an Australian - based retailer to bring shoppers an opportunity to shop from home . Though implementing virtual reality on an ecommerce site might take time and money , it could be the way of the future -- and a new way for businesses to gather information on how their customers shop . Finding the best domain name for your new business can be a major challenge . Luckily , website owners are no longer limited to just one or two options to the right of the dot . Businesses , brands and individuals have hundreds of new choices when selecting their digital identities , from " dot - clothing " ( .clothing ) to " dot - boutique " ( .boutique ) to " dot - style " ( .style ) and " dot - shopping " ( .shopping ) .   " Businesses in all industries can pick a domain name that tells the world exactly who they are and what they do , " say Paul Stahura , co - founder and CEO of Donuts Inc. , an internet domain registry that operates nearly 200 of these extensions , dubbed " not - com " domain names . " New businesses can stand out from the crowd in a way that was never possible before , and tell the world what business they 're in . For example : No one would know what Driftaway.com is , but www . Driftaway.coffee tells the world that it is a coffee business . Amici.com does not tell the world anything about your business , but www . Amici.catering tells prospective clients that it is a catering business . " While many small to mid - size businesses are quickly jumping aboard the " not - com " domain train , big enterprises have been trading " dot - com " names for more memorable ones . For example , Lady Gaga 's non - profit organization uses BornThisWay.foundation and Alphabet , Google 's parent company , announced their homepage live at ABC.xyz . Even retail giant Amazon is using domain name endings such as www . Amazon.clothing and www . Amazon.shoes to redirect visitors to the appropriate shopping page on its website , while also enhancing SEO . Technology is becoming smarter every day and it 's time for businesses , particularly in ecommerce , to include some type of anticipatory artificial intelligence into their websites . A website is more than just a page with pretty pictures and words . Designed properly , a website can relay information about your site visitors and use data on previous customers to predict their needs in the future . More data translates to increased personalization on various websites , which could lead to a more immersive user experience . Take Amazon for example . The Seattle retailer is working on technology it says is " anticipatory shipping , " a method that will deliver packages before customers even click buy . Not only will anticipatory technology cut down on delivery time and inefficient service , it could also improve customer satisfaction and increase loyalty to a particular brand . Using a customer 's previous order information and shopping habits , data pulled from the Amazon website , Amazon can predict demand based on a variety of factors and begin to show customers more personalized shopping ads based on their past behaviors . With newer , faster and more powerful smartphones hitting the market , websites are increasingly becoming more mobile . Responsive design is no longer an optional feature for websites -- it 's the difference between keeping your customers and repelling them to your competitors . And now websites need to take their capabilities one step further and begin incorporating augmented reality into their web designs . Pokemon Go , the hit mobile game , brought augmented reality right into the mainstream and caught the attention of marketers looking for the next big thing . Augmented reality is not the same thing as virtual reality . In AR , users are offered graphical enhancements to the physical environment they 're living in . The eyewear industry incorporates AR into their websites seamlessly . Sites such as Lenscrafters have specific websites that allow customers to virtually try on any eyewear product in the Lenscrafters ' stock . If you work in the ecommerce space or sell items that need to be tried on prior to purchase , revamping your website to accommodate AR might be good to look into . Technology is changing rapidly and evolving trends make it difficult for websites to stay static . Companies need a competitive edge and the best way to do so is identifying differentiating factors that help your website stand out . Trends like the " not - com " revolution and the growing presence of virtual reality will result in websites that are about more than just media and content . Elena Titova is a serial entrepreneur and user experience expert based in New York City . She has been working in fintech , web and app development startups . Her areas of interest include Virtual Reality , business strategy and creat ...