Four years on from launching its muru - D accelerator program in Sydney and taking it to Singapore , Brisbane , and Perth , Telstra has announced its expansion to Melbourne , setting up a program out of its Gurrowa innovation lab . Having opened Gurrowa in 2015 , Telstra also announced the space will come to be housed under the umbrella of its new Telstra Labs initiative , with company CTO Hakan Eriksson explaining this will be a single identity that brings together Telstra 's innovation and tech capability . Eriksson , who was appointed CTO late last year , said , " It 's a unique environment that allows for rapid experimentation , validation and the implementation of new ideas within Telstra and with our partners and customers . " Within Gurrowa , Telstra has launched a publicly accessible GSMA Open IoT lab that Eriksson believes is " a definite game changer " for the Australian Internet of Things ecosystem . It will allow anyone to create , test , and prototype IoT solutions by giving them access to an array of Telstra 's expertise and equipment , including a 3D printer , electronics testing equipment , and fully functional Cat - M1 and NB - IoT networks , with the goal to help foster a community and encourage best - practice sharing of ideas , experience , research , and insights among startups through to global enterprises . " It means that anyone from university students , to startups , to a multinational company can come here and work with some of the best equipment and minds in the business to bring their IoT solution to life . You can even test your IoT solutions to see how they would work on the Telstra network within a controlled environment , " Eriksson said . Access to the lab will be free for Telstra partners , while for others access will be granted for a fee , with this scaling according to a company 's circumstances . Participants in the new muru - D accelerator will also have access to the lab . The program , which will open applications in the coming months , is currently recruiting an entrepreneur in residence . The program 's expansion comes follows the appointment of former Salesforce executive , Julie Trell as CEO of muru - D in February . Trell , who took over from founder Annie Parker , said she was excited to work with Telstra and its growing family of startups to create " a uniquely Australasian entrepreneurial culture for the digital age " . " Companies like Telstra realise that a new generation of workers want real social impact and strong values to be a part of daily life in how and where they work . " Want to know more about what life is like in a muru - D program ? Hundreds of teams apply but only 10 are chosen for a place . Docu - series The Dream Academy reveals that taking an idea and turning it into a viable business is n't easy but the rewards you reap when you get it right can be incredible . Coming Soon to Channel 7 .  