Seattle has become one of the most important top tech hubs in the world , with an all - star lineup of homegrown companies and massive offices for out - of - towners looking to get their hands on the region 's deep roster of tech talent . But the city that spawned Microsoft , Amazon , Expedia , F5 and Zillow still comes up short in funding sources for early stage companies , with a lack of options for local startups to get off the ground . Andrew Dumont and Cameron Borumand want to change that . In February they began raising money for a new venture capital fund focused on early stage investments called Curious Capital . The fund is based in Seattle , but it wants to invest in startups throughout the Pacific Northwest . Curious Capital has already cut a couple small checks , and the fund is actively investing . They declined to say what companies they 've invested in , and did not disclose the target size of the new fund . But the arrival of a new funding source in Seattle is good news for those who 've argued that the Northwest -- despite its amazing array of technologists and world - class companies -- still falls short when it comes to bankrolling the next - generation of companies . The Curious Capital co - founders both hail from Washington state , and recently returned to Seattle from stints in New York and San Francisco . Dumont 's mother fell ill , and that brought him back to Seattle earlier this year , though he had always intended to return some day . Borumand is a born and raised Pacific Northwesterner , who comes from a Microsoft and Boeing family . He felt the pull of home and wanted to get involved in Seattle 's booming tech scene . The Seattle region has long been critiqued for its general lack of investors , both early - stage angel investors and later - stage venture capitalists . Dumont and Borumand have experienced what they say are stronger funding networks in New York and San Francisco with more options to choose from . And while there are many angel investors who got rich at places like Microsoft or Amazon and now invest as a hobby , Dumont said that the Pacific Northwest needs more options for early stage startups . " For an ecosystem to be healthy from a fundraising standpoint , you need more active funds , more active investors supporting it , " says Dumont , adding that they plan to invest across a wide array of sectors , from consumer - oriented companies to business - to - business software . The partners likely will stay away from up - and - coming biotech startups . Dumont has founded and worked for startups in Seattle , including Moz , where he was business development director . He eventually made his way to New York City , where he worked as an entrepreneur in residence at Betaworks , a startup studio similar in concept to Seattle 's Pioneer Square Labs . Dumont went on to become chief marketing officer at Bitly , a Betaworks spinoff company . Borumand brings the financial expertise . He is a former investment banker for Vaquero Capital in San Francisco , where he worked on later - stage financing for companies . One thing you wo n't see in these descriptions , a long track record of raising funds . " We are kind of bootstrapping a venture fund , which is completely illogical ; it 's pretty stupid in a lot of ways , " Dumont said . " But we really believe in what we are doing , so that 's why we are doing this . " That means raising capital is among the biggest challenges . To overcome this , Dumont and Borumand are starting small , and pitching their expertise as a benefit . They are n't taking a salary , nor have they attached any fees to the fund . In addition to funding , Curious Capital wants to be hands on with companies it invests in , helping them with growth plans and strategies to bring their products to market . Curious Capital is n't the only company to come forward to fill the investor void in Seattle . Last month , GeekWire reported on a new fund called Flying Fish Venture Partners . Founded by Seattle angel investors Heather Redman , Geoff Harris , and Frank Chang , Flying Fish is focused on helping early - stage startups in the Pacific Northwest get through their Series A round of funding and scale to the next level . Dumont said he knows his firm wo n't entirely fix funding issues in Seattle , but it 's a start . Curious Capital also wants to be a cheerleader for the region , promoting work done by local startups . Dumont said Pacific Northwest entrepreneurs are much less likely to brag about their work than counterparts in New York or San Francisco . " I think one of the challenges here -- one of the gifts and curses of Seattle people , including myself -- is that we put on our headphones and we work , but we do n't boast much . We do n't talk much about what we are doing , " Dumont said . " We are able to build awesome companies here because we are so focused on what we are working on . But it actually hurts because a lot of people do n't know there are a bunch of people building early stage companies here . "