With a sea of older properties littered throughout Australia 's capital cities , it 's almost become a formality for potential buyers to throw cash at expensive strata and inspection reports .   Buyers want to know what they 're getting in for before committing to the treacherous grind of mortgage repayments , and do n't want to have to worry about a swarm of fleas storming the place the moment they move in .   BeforeYouBid is a Sydney - based startup working to reduce the cost of property inspection reports for auctioned properties using a shared pricing model , whereby a report becomes gradually cheaper based on the number of buyers who purchase it .   The cost is separated into four tiers : the top tier or first purchase of a strata report is priced at an industry - standard $ 249 , while the second is priced at $ 139 for the second buyer , $ 99 for the third , and finally $ 79 for any additional customers . To incentivise potential buyers to bite into the first three pricing tiers , the startup offers a cash - back service for the first three customers if the report is resold at a lower - tier price to another customer .   BeforeYouBid 's founder , Rhys Rogers , explained that traditionally at auctions , potential buyers who are looking to bid would have to spend upwards of $ 500 on the due diligence of inspection reports . At the end of an auction , buyers who missed out on the property would be left hundreds of dollars out of pocket for nothing . " We 've created a model where the report comes cheaper for other people looking at the same property , then they can get cash back . Previously , potential buyers would try and get reports second hand , but there was no incentive for anyone to give it up since they were n't getting any cash back , " said Rogers .   Rogers gained first - hand experience in the property market having previously worked in the space , where he noticed a flaw with the existing model for inspection reports . " An agent that I was dealing with said he had to go out for a test inspection , then two days later he said he needed to go out and report again for another customer . I asked why they did n't just share it , and he said it was because there would be no benefit for the customer who purchased the report first , as there 's no money back , " Rogers said . Seeing a market opportunity , Rogers began developing an online platform that would allow customers to search for different properties , purchase shared reports and receive cashback . Rogers said NSW presented a ripe opportunity for the startup to get the ball rolling considering the state government imposed laws that force real estate agents to inform potential buyers if a property has a re - purchasable report available , rather than charge them full - price for a new report with partnering agencies .   Once a report has been purchased , BeforeYouBid will issue a link directing to the re - purchasable report to the property 's real estate agent , who can then share it among potential buyers . To further increase the visibility of a shared report for potential buyers , Rogers said the startup has also partnered with a number of real estate agencies to integrate a link to BeforeYouBid on their platforms , meaning a customer searching for a property online will be able to see if a re - purchasable report is available . Buyers can also search for properties on the BeforeYouBid platform , which uses the Google Maps API to allow customers to search for an address and visualise what properties have reports available .   To purchase a report , a customer only needs to fill out a few basic details about a property , including the real estate agency behind it , before an inspection can take place .   To ensure a report is of a high quality , Rogers said the business targeted only reputable property inspectors . " We looked online , read reviews , looked at their report styles , made sure they were the type who actually went under the house and in the roof . Buyers can also rate a property inspector after receiving their report using a five - star rating system , " said Rogers . BeforeYouBid currently has property inspectors operating across all of Australia 's major cities , with regional areas served by the startup hiring " freelance " inspectors to investigate a property . Rogers said reports are typically formulated and sent to a customer as a PDF within 48 hours .   Aside from strata and Building and Pest inspection reports , BeforeYouBid also serves pool inspections and free property contract reviews . Discussing if the business encountered any legal hurdles when developing a shared - report model , Rogers said the only challenge to overcome was dealing with the insurance of a report when it 's handed out to multiple customers . " It 's something we worked around by the insurance only going to the successful buyer of the property , who is the one who needs the recourse if there is a problem " he explained .   " Cashback was n't really possible ten years ago because it would have been a really admin - heavy thing to do offline . You 'd have to almost pay someone a full time wage to maintain that . So the online website gives us a lot of flexibility , " said Rogers .   This said , the startup did n't mention whether the cash - back amount is equal to the amount saved from each pricing tier , the full amount or a percentage . Having bootstrapped the startup between himself and a family member , Rogers said the business is n't currently looking for investment opportunities , rather the focus is on growing its user base and partnership numbers .  