Imagine finding yourself in the middle of the Grand Teton National Park , enjoying a weekend unplugged from the world , and the bear from The Revenant walks over to your campsite . You need to make a call for help , but alas you have no cell reception . Unlikely scenarios aside , there are endless reasons why a solo - traveler may need to reach the outside world while hiking , but cell reception is not always readily available . While few and far between , some devices improve range or create mesh networks , but for everyone else they are typically left relying on their survival skills . Cairn , which shares a name with those random stacked rock piles you see while hiking , is an app that lets you take technology you already have , and helps hikers to find cell reception . Not only that , it also lets loved ones know where someone is while hiking , the last known area they were in , health stats , and develops a crowdsourced map of reception or dead spots in the wilderness . In Tech . Co 's ongoing series to highlight the similarities to entrepreneurs and athletes who push their limits , we spoke to the cofounder of Cairn , Ali Alami , about his motivation to create the app . With a pedigree of success and an assortment of experiences in startups , Alami turned towards what he was most passionate about . " If you pick a passion , you will be a lot more motivated to work hard at it . There are ups and downs to any business , when you hit one of those low spots , at minimum you are doing something that you love and enjoy . You are more likely to succeed because you picked something you are passionate about , " said Alami . Any good business is built on a foundation of goals , missions , prioritization , and maybe a few organizational values along the way . Before the journey can really start , entrepreneurs need to plan and gear up before jumping right in . For some that means taking an idea and going through an incubator or accelerator , others that is working it as a side project , but in most cases there are no true overnight successes in the startup world . As startups go , Cairn is still a seedling and focusing on building those roots while growing at the same time , but before the seed was planted , relationships were formed and experiences were created . " Through Expedia I met two really good friends , Tove Martin and Brian Terry . My wife and I have gone on a lot of hikes with them , and after Expedia we went separate ways to other startups . Tove went on to Trover , which was acquired by Expedia , and Brian went off to Picnick , which was acquired by Google , shut down , and then employees re - created it with a different brand [ PicMonkey ] , " said Alami . Prior to startups , he was also a Survival Evasion Resistance Escape Instructor for the US Air Force for nearly a decade . The group still tries to get out and hike , but now with kids in the mix they 've had to tone it down a bit . More specifically , Alami says perhaps a bit less dangerous stuff . It was on one of these backpacking trips nearly two years ago that the idea was born . Alami was planning to leave town on Friday , traffic was heavy , and he was planning to go to a lake . He already knew there would be little to no cell coverage there , but he wanted to meet up with the group . " As it started to get dark , Tove and their kids were behind us , and were having trouble meeting up with us . It was really hard to meetup , " said Alami . " As a survivor instructor we always tell people where we are going and when we are going back . We said ' ok , this is a problem that someone needs to address , ' and being startup people we identified a niche . Tove said let 's start another company , and we went through a variety of ideas that had the potential for going big . " After some back and forth , the duo eventually decided to turn what would soon become Cairn into a passion project rather than a high - growth startup . Alami and Martin decided to build a lifestyle organization that is focused on something they are passionate about , that also meetings a specific need in the market . The market for outdoor and hiking related needs is also surprisingly large . According to the Outdoor Industry Association , the outdoor recreation market accounts for roughly 6.1 million jobs and $ 646 billion in consumer spending . Though passion was the focus , Alami and Martin knew that as entrepreneurs it would also be a challenge to still focus on the fitness side of what they love . " We knew that we needed to stay healthy and we know how hectic entrepreneurship is . We started doing usability studies while backpacking with users testing the app or just doing a run in my neighborhood . By doing that we are maximizing our time . My son just turned 7 and he just got into mountain biking . There were many times on backpacking trips , the kids would just fall asleep , and we 'd sit around the fire and talk business strategy . We have made so many decisions so far , but the ones we make in the outdoors are usually the ones that are the right decision . "   Passion for the outdoors is more than just a guiding star for the Cairn team , it 's built into how they work as a company . As entrepreneurs , sleep can often feel like a luxury , but in a world where health and fitness takes priorities , getting in your eight hours really matters . Though Alami knows getting in sleep is not always possible , the team integrates a balance of work and life . " We wake up early for a hike or climb , def go to bed early that night . My wife is a nutritionist and was was in culinary first , so we eat pretty healthy . No fast foods , " said Alami . But the organization is about more than just sustaining their lifestyle and fun . They 're also doing something good with their efforts . " We are still young enough where we have time for another startup , or we can always go back to the corporate world if we need to . So now it 's time to try something fun , but we can make it go big . That drives a lot of decisions and the focus on quality , but the other piece is doing something that is returning to the community : to have a healthy lifestyle and to get others out there while staying safe . It empowers people . We have quite a few solo female hikers on the app , and now they are not as worried about getting lost or venturing out beyond their personal limits . " Typically when you think passion , most would assume there is a priority shift from work into play , or in this case hiking first , business second . As the team decided to focus on a work - life integration , passion drives both components , which is why Alami is not concerned if the app and business really take off . " In an ideal world , we would continue doing the same thing , even if the team got bigger , " said Alami . " Graham Zimmerman is one and is in Alaska , Stacia Glenn is another and was in Nepal . Both super good athletes and climbers . Ideally we could continue to have meetings , I can see us renting houses , going to a hotel for a conference and people can go hiking , to still be able to experience that . I do n't think you have to compromise one for the other . " In addition to passion , the team has a mentality of less is more . By staying focused and prioritizing projects , you do n't have to go overboard on business hours . With fewer choices to make , time becomes more flexible and it 's easier to make the right decision while still growing . " At any given day there are hundreds of things we could work on . We thought ' right now we are not making any money , this was 6 months ago , and we decided we really need to engage users right now instead . ' First it was ' how do we engage with them on the trail before we are making money ? ' We could have done three or four different things , but focused on one , consumer engagement . It allowed us to maintain that lifestyle , " said Alami . Growth for startups typically consists of users , engagement , and downloads , but that is not necessarily the same for a quality focused organization . Until now , Cairn 's development was focused on the mission of having a great app , which in turn would result in more users . As a result , word - of - mouth has helped the team grow to more than 12,000 downloads in the past few months , and has tracked more than two million points of cell coverage so far . " We are not just logging for coverage , but also mapping the wilderness , which we then crowdsource to everyone else . In colorado , out of the 14,000 peaks , we 've got coverage and data on over two - thirds of them . That 's almost every major mountain in the West coast . Most national parks in the US have pretty good coverage too , " said Alami . Eventually though , they decided it was time to prepare for and embark on more challenging paths . To do this , they started by looking at weak areas such as user engagement , and began building out new features that would encourage people to interact with the app more . " That 's where we started to add more stats about hiking distance by month and year , trails ran , etc . Users can segment activities by different types too ( biking , hiking , etc.).Think of this as a Waze for the wilderness , " said Alami . " You send out a safety note to a family member and just go . It then tracks your location every minute . You can also adjust the settings so as not to use as much battery . Because each phone is using GPS details even without coverage , it still tracks the information , too . It also shows all carriers in the data . You may not be able to share an instagram photo , but the other carrier will support 911 call out . " When asked how other entrepreneurs facing a dilemma between running a high - growth business or pursuing it with emphasis on passion , Alami says it 's all about the team and focus points . " You should find a partner or team , someone who shares your passion . For example , I go for runs with my cofounders and we can discuss things on runs . Say you 're a runner , you can find another person that compliments you really well , you work well as team , and you both can have meetings while running . Finding the right partners or cofounders , is important . Then , focus narrowly on a problem in your industry , and solve for that . " Read more about healthy entrepreneurs here on Tech . Co