Whether you 're an entrepreneur , an investor , or a reporter , stress comes with the job . But taking an hour out of your day to meditate or practice yoga is n't always a realistic goal . Enter Simple Habit , a sort of Netflix for meditation , whereby users can choose from a variety of five - minute sessions tailored to help them overcome challenging professional situations like public speaking or asking for a raise . What 's more , the app can also help with such social situations as going on a date or giving a toast . The San Francisco - based startup announced today funding of $ 2.5 million in a seed round led by New Enterprise Associates ( NEA ) . The app , which is available on both iOS and Android , offers more than 1,000 meditating sessions -- 50 free ones , with the possibility to upgrade to a Premium version for $ 11.99 per month or $ 99.99 per year . Extra features include unlimited access to all premium content as well as the ability to download a session and use it offline while on a flight , for example . Simple Habit 's founder and CEO , Yunha Kim , claims that more than 400,000 users have downloaded the app in the past eight months . Kim is well acquainted with the startup world , having sold her previous company Locket to Wish in 2015 . The entrepreneur began working on Simple Habit while studying business at Stanford , later dropping out to focus entirely on her new project . Fresh out of Y Combinator 's Winter 2017 batch , Simple Habit is entering a market that 's already flooded with meditation apps like Headspace , Aura , Calm , Stop , Breathe & Think , and OMG , I Can Meditate ! So what 's different here ? " Simple Habit is a marketplace of meditation teachers , rather than a single teacher meditation app , " wrote Kim , in an email to VentureBeat . " We bring top meditation and mindfulness teachers from all over the world , ranging from experts that teach positive psychology at universities , to executive coaches and godfathers in the mindfulness space , and make them available in one place . " According to Kim , the app targets busy people with specific needs , like engineers who seek to sharpen their focus or anxious employees who are dealing with difficult coworkers . Simple Habit was founded in 2016 and currently has four employees . FJ Labs , Foundation Capital , YC , and founders of Dropbox and Gusto joined NEA in today 's round .