Launchway Media is a digital agency specializing in data - driven marketing campaigns for global startups , with a record for helping technology startups , especially in Latin America , launch and grow their products or services on a global scale . They 're also a three - woman operation : Nora Leary is the head of marketing , Katie Griffing is the head of operations , Caitlin Sanders is the creative director , and all three are co - founders . Launchway 's unique location and business model -- the bilingual marketers operate out of Latin America and help startups navigate the area 's business ecosystem -- give them an interesting startup story of their own . Here 's the story of how the marketing team struck out on their own and what lessons they learned in the process . The three team members all hail from the United States originally , but have lived in Latin America for the past five years , an experience that has given them insider knowledge on the challenges faced by those in emerging markets . " Our founding team met in Buenos Aires , Argentina in 2013 , " Launchway tells me , " and we decided to start the company in 2015 after working together for two years at another web development and marketing agency . We decided to use our connections and prior experiences in the U.S. to tap into the growing startup ecosystem in Latin America and help startups here . There are many entrepreneurs creating innovative products and services for the U.S. market that need native English speakers to help them market their ideas . As bilingual marketers with experience working in the LatAm tech industry , we have a particularly unique voice and perspective to offer companies in the region . " Launchway knows what it takes to help their clients stand apart from other startups and get into a top - tier accelerator program : " Most startups ca n't afford to hire a full - time marketer , " they say . " Not to mention , the entire interviewing and recruiting process can waste a great deal of the team 's valuable time . By outsourcing marketing tasks to us , startups often get the same amount ( or more ) work done by an entire team of marketing experts for the same costs as hiring one person . Our clients have been through a variety of accelerator programs : 500 Startups Mountain View , Naranya Labs , NXTP Labs , Start - Up Chile , TechStars Austin , Venture Hive , and more , so we also offer accelerator application services to help startups edit and perfect their application , pitch video , and pitch decks so they can get into a top program . " It is an interesting time to be a woman in tech working in Latin America , Launchway tells me . " Technology here is a bit behind the U.S. , " they explain , " which means the region has time to fix the mistakes that the U.S. made about integrating women in the field . Hopefully , and perhaps by learning from what went wrong in the states , Latin America can do a better job of making sure women are treated equally in the industry . Since there is also more ground for female entrepreneurs to cover , the growing startup ecosystem in Latin America makes for an exciting environment full of possibilities . There are many business models that have already thrived in U.S. but have yet to catch on in Latin America , and that leaves many opportunities for those who are innovating , regardless of gender . "