Anne Boden , CEO and founder of Starling Bank . Starling Bank LONDON --Britain is going through a retail banking boom right now , with several new , app - only banks setting up shop . Starling was one of the first . Anne Boden quit her position the COO of Allied Irish Bank ( AIB ) in 2014 to build a mobile - first bank and has been doing that ever since . This week the company received its full banking licence and is set to launch to the public later this year . But Starling faces competition . Last year Atom became the first app - only bank in the UK to launch to the public and Monzo , set up by Starling 's first CTO Tom Blomfield , is also poised to launch app - only current accounts . Tandem , another startup , is also targeting retail customers but has been hit by a funding setback . Business Insider sat down with Boden at last week 's Innovate Finance conference in London to discuss competition in the market , the challenges of building a bank from scratch , plans for profitability and growth , and her relationship with Blomfield today . Here is the transcript of the interview , edited for clarity and brevity . Oscar Williams - Grut : What are the big changes that have gone on in the business in the last year ? Anne Boden : It 's been very exciting because we 're now in a situation where we have a current account , which has all the things that a normal current account has , plus lots of other things which we are developing and iterating all the time . We announced our APIs yesterday , that was very exciting because we 've got the first APIs directly connected into a UK current account . We have an API that goes directly into Faster Payments , that 's very exciting . We decided that the best way of launching those APIs into the world was a hackathon so we tweeted about our hackathon and hundreds of people applied . We picked 100 to come to an event which we held at Google Campus . We were thrilled that we had great reception . People started using them , figuring it out . We gave them their own cards and own account so they could use either their own data that they had generated or our sandbox . We 've had great feedback -- people saying the APIs are amazing and they had a good time , which is the most important thing . OWG : What 's the reason for the hackathon ? Is this to differentiate yourself from competitors ? AB : I think the idea is we do n't intend to do all the products for all the segments through all the channels . We do n't think that by doing that -- by setting out to be a little RBS or a little HSBC -- we do n't think that adds anything and I do n't think a company can really innovate on that many levels . What we 're really focusing on is the day - to - day transactional banking needs , your current account , and giving you all the access to all the payment systems you need . And then use that data to give you insight . If you want other products , we will help you because we 've KYC'd [ know your customer checks required by the regulator ] you and we understand you , your spending behaviours and so on . We 'll know the other products you can buy from other providers , on their balance sheets . We 're not arrogant enough to say we can provide the best mortgage or best long - term savings product . We 're focused on doing one thing and then living in a marketplace of other products . We recently announced a partnership with TransferWise . We 're also partnering with MoneyBox . Now that 's a great example of linking bank account data to people who are addressing a specific need . We 're building up this marketplace and we intend to be the glue , the curator in the middle of it all . OWG : How will you make money ? Current accounts are famously loss leading . The overdraft feature in Starling 's app . Starling AB : We 'll make money on overdrafts . So , everyone reckons that current accounts are loss making but that 's because all the banks say they 're loss making . I spent 30 odd years in retail banking and I know how they 've come to that conclusion . They have all the products , mortgages , current accounts , all the product lines , and then they have all the costs and they decide where they 're going to allocate the costs -- we have the branch network , 80% of the cost goes to current accounts ; payment systems , goes to current accounts . They load up the costs and all of a sudden current accounts are loss making . So they say , we 've got to cross - sell now to recover the cost of selling the current account . If you do n't have those costs in the first place , the current account is profitable . Think very simply of the economics . You have balances sitting on an account . You 're paying around 0.5% . It 's low single digits . You 're lending out the money as overdrafts , you can , say , lend half of it . You lend that out at between 12 - 19% . There 's a difference . The difference between us and the big banks is we do n't eat up that difference with all the cost of infrastructure . We 've built everything from scratch . Unlike all the other new banks who are using someone else 's infrastructure , we can deliver this cost effectively . OWG : On overdrafts -- 12 - 19% , are those actual figures ? AB : At the moment that 's the range depending on an individual 's credit rating . It 's a reasonable interest rate . I 'm saying the number because it 's not high . That 's how we make money and if you talk to any of the big banks and you ask them about current accounts -- they look at it in a different way . OWG : You talked about building a marketplace , there 's a lot of competition in that area : Monzo , Tandem , and N26 all want to do that . Are you feeling the heat from that competition ? AB : I think the market is very , very big . Looking back to when I started this back in 2014 , we had a marketplace in our presentations to the FCA [ Financial Conduct Authority ] back in June 2014 . It 's always been something close to my heart . If you look at where we are , Atom haven't launched a current account yet , I do n't think Tandem are going to do it , so it 's probably only Monzo and ourselves in that marketplace . I think the market 's big enough . OWG : How many customers have you got at the moment ? AB : I think we 've got about 500 . The idea is we 're going to build that up now rapidly . OWG : When will you go from beta to full launch ? AB : I think it 's when our customers feel comfortable with the service . I think we 'll probably have another couple of months of beta . It 's hard to define what a beta is . We 've got a fully functional current account that can do everything that a Barclays or HSBC could do , so in some respect , it 's not really a beta . But we want to make sure we take on board all the feedback we get from our customers . OWG : How many staff have you got at the moment ? AB : 85 . OWG : Are you worried about your cash burn rate ? We 've seen some redundancies with Tandem recently . It seems like building a bank is expensive . Starling 's app . Starling AB : The number one thing is : starting a bank is very difficult . We 're in a situation where there 's an awful lot of talk about lots of people going for banking licenses but if you actually take them one by one , there are n't that many people with retail banking licenses that get through to the end . There are phases of different sorts of banks . The first phase of new banks were the Aldermores and the Shawbrooks . What they were doing was a consolidation of lots of people doing specialised lending . Then there were a lot of SME banks that came along , like OakNorth or whatever , which are not really technology driven banks but are dealing with the business that the big banks are not really interested in doing because they 're too manual . Then you 've got the latest round of banks , which are the consumer banks -- the Atoms , the Tandems , us , Monzo . You do need an awful lot of money . Starting a bank is very difficult because seed funding is very difficult to obtain because EIS and SEIS schemes [ tax - efficient investment vehicles ] do n't apply . It 's quite difficult to raise money for a proposition that 's going to be revenue generating in three years or three and a half years . That does n't typically fall into the VC model . The VC model wants to invest in businesses that will be revenue generating very soon . Starting a bank is not for the faint - hearted . But it 's ever so worthwhile . There are lots of fintechs based on pre - paid models but those models are very difficult to get revenue generating . Or rather , they 're easy to get revenue generating , very difficult to get profitable . There are so many people in the value chain . Although it 's quite good in raising customer expectations and customers getting used to nice new things , it 's very difficult when so many people are taking a piece of the pie . That 's why we believed we had to be a bank because we have a viable business model . OWG : Do you need to raise money ? AB : We 've got enough money for years . [ Ed . note : You can read more about Starling 's funding here . ] OWG : Are you planning to raise money ? AB : We 'll probably raise more money as we go into the end of the year but we 're sufficiently funded for the coming years . OWG : You talked about ramping up the growth in terms of customers , how do you plan to do that ? AB : I 've spent 30 years in an industry which has become very jaded about trying to acquire customers and sell to customers . I think if you offer good value and you offer a proposition which is innovative , people will migrate to it . People can try before they buy . If you look at the existing incumbents , they entice you to switch . But you do n't have to switch . We believe customers will like something different . Lloyds and Barclays sound the same , look the same , but they 've got a different carpet . OWG : What will customers see that is different to a traditional bank ? AB : What we 're working on at the moment is -- I do n't want to fall into the trap of saying it 's wonderful , it 's gorgeous . I think people should experience it for themselves . It 's very easy , it 's very functional and it has all the functions that nowadays people come to expect : freeze the card , the usual sorts of things . OWG : It sounds like a Catch-22 -- you think people will switch because it 's a different product , but you have to try it to understand it . It 's almost an " if you build it , they will come " type thing . AB : No , there 'll be a number of things that we 'll do to make sure people know about it . I think that we have the whole thing about being different , we have the marketplace platform whereby we 're associated with great brands so their customers know about us . We also have the social media and plans to be out there talking to customers where they live their lives , instead of expecting customers to come to us . It will probably come alive over the next couple of months . OWG : Do you have an idea of who your target market is ? AB : I think we initially talked about 20 to 45-year - olds but it 's all sorts of people . One of our customers is somebody in the office 's mother who is in her 70s and using it to manage a limited budget . But it 's for the people who are prepared to do all their business on a mobile . We believe in delivering everything in a convenient form and that 's what we 're doing . Tom Blomfield , CEO , Monzo . Monzo OWG : I asked colleagues and on Twitter if anyone had any questions for you , and the number one question that came back was what happened between you and Tom Blomfield [ Blomfield was Starling 's CTO but left to found Monzo ] ? AB : ( Laughs ) I 've known Tom years . I met Tom when I was an advisor to GoCardless [ a direct debit startup Blomfield cofounded ] . Tom joined us for a short period of time , September 2014 and left in February [ 2015 ] . I think Tom wanted to do his own thing and he is doing his own thing . Tom and I occasionally have breakfast and , you know , the market is big enough for both of us ( laughs ) . OWG : So you 're still on good terms ? AB : We 're still friends . I think I spoke to him last Wednesday . OWG : Do you speak to the other guys -- the Tandems , the Atoms ? AB : It 's a small world . Ricky [ Knox , cofounder of Tandem ] has popped in to our offices , and I 've gone to see him . I do n't go to Durham very often to see Atom I must admit . Our competition is the big banks . What we 're doing is raising customer expectations , introducing competition . We all as an industry went into the crisis and came back out and I personally do n't think enough has changed . Technology has changed , expectations have changed , and regulation has changed . The banks were too busy and too internally focused and I really wanted to do something different . So I quit my job to start this , and it 's really great to be so near customers . It 's really great to be using technology . I love the fact that we can do things so much easier nowadays . We can do interesting things and why should n't we do it in banking ? This is ever so fulfilling . Every time we talk to customers and they tell us how much benefiting their getting -- it 's exciting . OWG : Are you in touch with the big banks ? Are they sniffing around ? AB : The big banks want to come and see us every week . On a typical week , you 'll get three or four emails either from consulting firms wanting to bring around people on a visit , or you 'll get people who 've set themselves up in business doing fintech tours . OWG : Fintech tours ? AB : Yes ! ( Laughs ) Then you get contacts from overseas who want to come and talk to us . We have to be very careful with our time . Sometimes it 's very hard to say no because we want to be friends . But there 's a huge amount of interest in what we do and I have a bank to build . OWG : What does building a bank look like in 2017 ? Where do you want to be at the end of the year ? AB : For us , this year is going to be a year of building our marketplace . It 's going to be really getting out there . We 've spent a long time testing , we 've been testing now since July . It 's now a situation of getting out there with real customers and making it work .