Medical marijuana has been a hot button issue in the US for years now . While a growing number of states have made this medicinal methodology legal , many states have a vast array of regulations and laws in place that are preventing potential patients for acquiring medical marijuana quickly and easily . One of these states is New York , in which doctors are required to register for the NYS Medical Marijuana Program and obtain a special certification in order to prescribe medical marijuana making access to care extremely limited . Fortunately , one company is looking to change that . NuggMD is a California - based leading telemedicine portal that connects qualified medical marijuana patients with licensed physicians online . They 've assisted more than 40,000 California patients in obtaining an online medical marijuana consultation with a licensed physician , and they 've set their sights on the challenges of the New York market . " Although New York approved medical marijuana in 2014 , barely 14,000 people legally have access to it because of restrictions on the visibility and number of doctors , " said Collin Mann , CEO at NuggMD , in a press release . " This is a trend we 've seen across the board in states with new marijuana laws on the books . Access should be feasible , but it 's not , and we 're going to change that ; our network of cannabis - expert doctors will accelerate that change better than anyone else . " With their launch in New York , the company is excited to enable participating New York physicians to provide convenient and efficient care to patients statewide . And with only 884 of the 110,000 practitioners in New York registered for the NYS Medical Marijuana Program , they have got their work cut out for them in the Big Apple . " It 's frustrating that we ca n't find a practitioner , especially while knowing that children in different states have full access to this medicine " said Dr. Amy Piperato , a doctor in NY whose daughter has epilepsy . With more and more patients boasting about the benefits of medicinal marijuana and an increasing numbers of states getting on board , the obstacles to meaningful patient care should hopefully dwindle in the coming years . But in the meantime , it 's great to have a company like NuggMD on the front lines of the medical battle with regulations . Read more about cannabis startups here on Tech . Co Photo : Flickr / Dank Depot