After a decade of strong growth , employment in Washington state 's life science industry is decreasing . ( Washington Life Science & Global Health Advisory Council Image )   Washington state is a leader in many areas of science , technology , and innovation . But over the past few years , the state 's life science industry -- once among its strongest -- has begun to languish . A new report commissioned by the Washington Life Science & Global Health Advisory Council shows that the industry lost 3 percent of its jobs between 2011 and 2014 in the state . In a contrast , the national life science industry saw job growth of 2.7 percent in the same time period . The new job data shows a reversal in the trend of strong job growth in the previous decade , which was faster and more dramatic than the nation as a whole and fared well during two economic crises . It 's also a stark contrast to the skyrocketing growth of employment in Washington 's technology industry . The report blames this downturn on an erosion of state programs meant to support the life sciences industry , including the end of the state 's research and development tax credit and the elimination of multiple state funding programs . The advisory council , which was established in 2015 by Gov. Jay Inslee to address concerns that the industry was falling behind , presented the report to the governor today as part of a bid to revive those state programs and reinvigorate the industry . One of the clearest examples of this erosion is the closing of the Life Sciences Discovery Fund ( LSDF ) , a state - run fund which gave research grants to early stage startups , nonprofits and research institutions . Leen Kawas , CEO of Seattle - based M3 Biotechnology and a member of the advisory council , told GeekWire that the financial assistance and connections she made through the fund made her entrepreneurial journey possible . " Probably M3 would have not been here if we did n't get the funding from the state , and also the support for the community , " she said . M3 was one of the last groups to be funded before the fund was closed abruptly in June of 2015 . " We were also being asked to move to California , " and if the company had gotten off the ground without the LSDF , it likely would have relocated to San Diego , Kawas said . " It was a great tool for me as an entrepreneur , and I feel that we need to empower our entrepreneurs to build life science companies , " she said . " It 's not only creating revenue for the state , but potentially we could be changing and improving the quality of life for a lot of people . " The life science industry does indeed have major repercussions beyond corporate and government balance sheets . Washington is recognized as one of the leaders in life sciences research , and work at institutions like the University of Washington and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center is advancing cutting - edge therapies for cancer , Alzheimer 's , HIV and more . But the state is struggling to translate that leading research into a thriving industry . Leslie Alexandre , CEO of industry group Life Science Washington and a member of the governor 's advisory council , told GeekWire that much more could be done to leverage that wealth of research . " We have this incredible foundation to build upon , that other states dream of . Most other states ca n't touch what we have in research , " Alexandre said . The advisory council 's most immediate recommendation to fuel growth in the industry is to reinstate a research and development tax credit that the legislature allowed to expire in 2015 . Governor Inslee has written that credit into his budget , which is currently being examined by the state Legislature . If the budget is approved , the tax credit would assist companies investing in research and development , often companies who are not yet profitable . The report identifies the tax credit and Washington 's business and operation tax as two measures which make it " one of the most challenging states in the country for life science companies to grow and add manufacturing jobs in the state . " Other measures endorsed in the report include steps to retain mid - size and high - growth companies , of which the state has very few ; assist entrepreneurs by allocating more wet lab space , particularly in urban areas ; and attract more investment opportunities , possibly including state - sponsored funds like the LSDF . The report included another notable number : for every job created directly by the life science industry , 3.8 additional jobs were created across the state . Life science jobs also fared well during recent periods of economic difficulty , including the great recession in 2007 and 2008 . The industry fared better than Washington as a whole during those economic crises , with respects to job retention .