Springboard Enterprises ( SBE ) Australia , an organisation which helps women entrepreneurs become investor - ready , has achieved huge success since its inception in early 2013 . Over the last four years , the organisation has guided over 35 women - led startups to raise above $ 120 million collectively in funding , having assisted companies including Open Agent , Health Kit , and Flamingo . The origins behind this flagship organisation for women entrepreneurs , however , extends well beyond this four year period and back into the late 20th century . For SBE 's founder , Kay Koplovitz , the journey began in the 1970s , where after writing her master thesis in satellite technologies and a stint working for a company in the cable industry , she moved onto founding her first business . " I actually started in sports television , where we gathered all the contracts in major league sports and worked on bringing them to cable , which eventually became the USA Network , " said Koplovitz . Following a long period in television , Koplovitz was in 1998 asked by then - President Bill Clinton to chair the National Business Council , a role that involved reporting to Congress on the progress of women in business . " This did n't exactly float my boat , because I mostly like to actually physically do something to create and see results . But I saw all this money in venture capital , $ 104 billion , pouring into the innovation economy . There was so much of it available , yet there were no women there , " she said . " Less than two percent of this capital was funding women , and even that was only in a couple of companies . There was really no access point , so I said , this is something we can tackle ; are there women working with technology that would be raising for companies if they could ? " Unsurprisingly , said Koplovitz , the answer was n't that women in the business ecosystem were being denied funding , it was merely just that they did n't exist . " That 's why we launched Springboard , to help get women there and to help this disconnect . It was an opening for women to get into the equity funding marketplace , because that 's how their companies will be competitive , " she explained . Opening applications in 1999 , SBE went on to make its debut with its first US demo day in 2000 . Hoping to get at least 10 applications from women - led companies , Koplovitz said the organisation ended up receiving over 350 in that first year alone . " I knew right then it was a vastly underfunded and potentially low performing marketplace , " she said . Marking a start to turn the tides for women in technology , the first SBE event went onto be a massive success , with 22 out of the 26 participating startups earning funding , two merging their businesses and another being acquired . This event , for Koplovitz , was both a " wow " moment and a clear indication to continue to move forward . Bringing the initiative to Australia , however , was n't exactly straightforward , as Koplovitz explained that Australia 's low venture capital marketplace meant it was " very challenging " for female entrepreneurs and female - led companies to raise capital and grow - hence the long waiting period between SBE 's US launch in 1999 and its official expansion to Australia in 2013 . " We had our own venture capital marketplace that we used to connect the Australian companies into our global network , " explained Koplovitz . As of the end of last year , the organisation has put through a total of 642 women - led global startups through its guided program , with these raising a collective US$ 7.5 billion . In Australia , 70 percent of participating startups have been able to raise funding post - SBE , with 33 percent having successfully expanded internationally . As the organisation looks to grow its influence , Koplovitz believes there are a whole host of other elements , particularly government , that can impact women in the entrepreneurial sphere . Looking at the new Trump Government in US , the SBE founder believes there are a number of positives the administration could bring for women in banking , financial and other corporate industries thanks to new regulations in the pipeline . For women looking to enter the " innovation economy " , however , Koplovitz said the impact of the new government is looking negative . " The budget cuts are going to be on the social programs side , so cuts to funding for Planned Parenthood , it 's going to be harmful to women . Things such as cuts to families and women 's ' ability to get back to work , it 's all potentially harmful , " she said . When it comes to what governments can do to support women entrepreneurs , Koplovitz said much of the answer lies with strong social policy . " Women are still largely responsible for children and still carry the majority of responsibility for these other factors of life , so any policy that helps women navigate these challenges would be helpful , " she said . " I also think government can have policies pertaining to diversity . Movement and financial support for women is going to endeavour either way , so either way I think we continue and push on . " To reflect a diverse landscape , Koplovitz said she would also like to see a lot more women investing ; women make up just around 30 percent of today 's investment landscape , an increase from the " one percent of early stage investors " Koplovitz saw in the late 90s , but this needs to increase . Reflecting back on SBE 's years of success and her journey towards running a successful business in what was a densely male - dominated industry , Koplovitz had this to say : " I 'm not reluctant to go out into the unknown and capture a section of the marketplace . People have since asked me over the years how to become a CEO , and I say to them , you should start there . "