The University of Technology Sydney ( UTS ) has splashed $ 11.25 million on a warehouse on Chippendale 's Buckland Street this week , which it will put towards growing the startup community in the area . According to Commercial Real Estate , the 420-square - metre site was expected to sell somewhere around the $ 7.5 million mark , with more than half a dozen registered bidders pushing the price up . Patrick Woods , UTS Deputy Vice - Chancellor ( Resources ) , told Commercial Real Estate the space will be used to further support the startup ecosystem in the area ; Fishburners is just a short walk down Harris St from UTS 's main Broadway campus , while the new WeWork space is further down in Pyrmont . " UTS is at the heart of a precinct that has become a hub of innovative activity , in fact one of the two largest startup precincts in all of Australia , " Woods said . " The university 's strategy focuses on student innovation and entrepreneurship and opening up UTS 's cutting - edge facilities and resources to startups and the community . " The heritage - listed building , last used as an office for an advertising firm with a smash repair business on the ground floor , is located next to the UTS Blackfriars campus and just a few hundred metres from the Broadway campus . The buy is the latest push from UTS to establish itself as a key part of the local startup ecosystem . A key sponsor of the TechSydney advocacy group , the university is also a partner of BlueChilli 's female - focused accelerator program , SheStarts . UTS also announced earlier this year its support of the Slingshot human resources accelerator EnergyLab , sponsored by Seek and Hudson , with the participating startups will be housed at its Blackfriars campus . As the Sydney community continues to grow , South Australian startup group SouthStart has announced it is working to submit a proposal to work with the state government to create a tech precinct in the Adelaide CBD , a " dedicated technology - enabled realestate purpose built for startups , international tech companies , entrepreneurs and programs " . Calling on the South Australian community to sign a petition in support of the idea , SouthStart believes that such a precinct is a " unique concept " for Adelaide that will deliver " the ideal platform for organic growth , collaboration and innovation to occur in one place with facilities that are world class " .