A new startup wants to help you transform the simple , everyday task of shopping online into social good . Data Does Good , a company founded by two students at the Stanford Graduate School of Business , lets you donate your Amazon.com shopping history and turn it into hard cash for good causes -- at no extra cost . SEE ALSO : This Chrome extension helps you find ethical shopping alternatives -- and saves you money The website takes your anonymous and encrypted shopping history and sells it to brands and retailers looking for trends and valuable marketing information about its consumers , like gender and age . As a public benefit corporation ( essentially a hybrid between a for - profit company and a nonprofit ) , Data Does Good earns money to make the business sustainable , but it donates the majority of its proceeds to any charity of your choice . The tool aims to use technology and data to change the way people donate , and also increase financial support for worthy causes .   Data Does Good cofounder and CEO Scott Steinberg used to work in market research , where he learned people 's information had untapped potential . He believed people could do good with their data , but they just did n't have the option . " This is something everyone has and everyone can use . " Inspired by modern technology 's effects on fundraising , like the 2014 viral Ice Bucket Challenge , he and his cofounder , Eric Peter , decided to create Data Does Good to combine data and impact , helping consumers and nonprofits alike . " This resource -- your data -- is something that everyone has , whether you 're a low - income person living in an urban city center or a mother of three of a rural area , " Steinberg said . " This is something everyone has and everyone can use . We 're really excited about this as not just a new way to raise money for valuable causes , but as a way to allow everyone , across the demographic spectrum , to participate in fundraising . "   Image :   Data Does Good Here 's how it works : You go to the Data Does Good site , select a nonprofit you want to support , and then share your Amazon shopping history in one of two ways . You can either download an Excel spreadsheet of the list of purchases you 've made in the past and upload it to the site , or you can link your account and Data Does Good automates the process for you . You also need to provide some information , like your age and income . That kind of info is gold to brands and retailers , helping them understand how consumers shop online . By including it yourself , Steinberg said , it allows Data Does Good to completely anonymize your shopping history and strip it of any personally identifiable information before it sends it to brands . " It 's really just something you do one time . You may take two or three minutes to do this today , but it will raise money for years to come , without you having to do anything , " Steinberg said . Alarmed by the situation in # Syria ? Donate your shopping history below to provide future aid through @SyriaRandD https://t.co/B3y9ZIGNz8 pic.twitter.com/yCvyZzOE3p -- Data Does Good ( @DataDoesGood ) December 21 , 2016 With the proceeds it gets from its market research tool , Data Does Good then donates $ 15 a year per user to a nonprofit of their choice . That may not sound like a lot , but Steinberg said when a large number of people participate , the impact magnifies . " One way to think about it is , ' Oh , it 's only $ 15 . ' But another way to think about it is , ' I do this thing that only takes me two minutes ... and it raises $ 15 per year . ' If thousands or millions of people do this , that 's when it starts to have a substantive impact , " he said . " If thousands or millions of people do this , that 's when it starts to have a substantive impact . " While users can donate to any charity , Data Does Good also partners with about 50 nonprofits . Those organizations can create custom donation pages , and when they send the tool to their supporters , those individual contributions can be even more beneficial . But $ 15 per year for each user is just a starting point . The company is starting with Amazon to perfect the tool , gather feedback and make sure it 's done right -- before attempting to expand to other other types of data . " Everything you do on the internet , you 're generating data about yourself -- when you go to Google , when you watch something on Netflix , " Steinberg said . " The goal is really to use Amazon as a proof point , and then expand beyond that in ways that people feel comfortable with , but help them get value from all their different data points . " Today it might be $ 15 per year , he said , but in three years , it might be $ 150 or even $ 200 per year .   Image :   Data Does Good Data Does Good officially launched in November 2016 , when it started collecting donations , after the team worked on it for about a year . They wanted to make sure they understood needs from consumers , nonprofits and businesses to make sure it was something desired . The feedback they 've received so far has confirmed that . Consumers have said it 's extremely easy to use , while nonprofits have found it to be even more efficient that traditional fundraising , both in terms of reaching new supporters and reinvigorating older relationships . " That 's not to say we 're replacing traditional fundraising at all , " Steinberg said . " But I think it 's a good complement to that . " We 're trying to change people 's behavior , and that takes some time Data Does Good hopes to be a standardized fundraising tool for nonprofits of all sizes -- but especially for smaller nonprofits , which may not have a lot of time or resources for big fundraising efforts . Short - term , Data Does Good wants to expand its number of partnerships with nonprofits and reach as many consumers as possible . " Our goal over the next nine to 18 months or so would be to just really nail Amazon shopping history and create a couple of million dollars of new funding for nonprofits , " Steinberg said . Ultimately , he wants Data Does Good to be a " trusted intermediary and partner , " so consumers can get value out of the data they might not realize they possess , and share what they 're comfortable with for a higher purpose . " We 're trying to change people 's behavior , and that takes some time , " Steinberg said . " It 's doable , but it needs to be done in the right way , and be a good experience for everyone involved . "   