Flickr / dlee13PepsiCo -- the food company that makes snacks like Doritos , Cheetos , and Quaker Oats cereal -- is looking for alternative protein sources for its products . On the open innovation site NineSights , PepsiCo recently posted a request for " new and novel protein sources for usage in their snacks and beverages . " These non - traditional proteins could include plant - based protein , mycoprotein ( a protein made from mushrooms ) , or insect protein . The request also mentioned that PepsiCo has already done extensive work with soy , moringa ( a protein powder made from dried leaves ) , duckweed , cricket powder , pea protein , dairy , single cell protein , and mealworm powder ( generally made from roasted and milled mealworms ) . PepsiCo declined to comment on any specific plans , but spokesperson Andrea Foote said the company 's R&D team is working on the project , which is not tied to any one brand . Other food giants are also experimenting with novel types of proteins , often made from plants . In 2016 , Campbell Soup Co. started selling a line of non - dairy , plant - based milk with 10 grams of pea protein per serving . Later that year , Tyson Foods , one of the world 's largest meat producers , launched a venture capital fund worth $ 150 million that invests in startups developing meat alternatives . The VC arm of General Mills , 301 Inc. , has also invested in the plant - based protein startups Beyond Meat and Kite Hill , which makes non - dairy cheeses , milks , and yogurts . PepsiCo 's request may reflect a growing consumer shift away from non - traditional protein sources . US sales of foods with alternative proteins totaled $ 4.9 billion in 2016 , according to the Plant - Based Foods Association . The research firm Markets and Markets predicts that the meat substitutes industry will be worth $ 5.96 billion by 2022 . " Consumers the world over have embraced a variety of high - protein foods , such as Greek - style yogurt and beef jerky style meat products , " PepsiCo 's request reads . " Unfortunately , that increased level of protein in the product can negatively impact consumer perceptions by adversely impacting texture , taste , color , etc . " Ideally , PepsiCo said it would like to find a high - protein source that has a pleasant taste . Additionally , the company said the protein should be non - GMO , have " a good sustainability story , " and have an " easy to pronounce and common " name that avoids " chemical - sounding ingredients . "