Nextio CEO Aravind Bala brings 16 years of engineering experience from Microsoft to his new venture . ( Nextio Photo )   Aravind Bala had been at Microsoft for nearly 15 years when he met Anoop Gupta , his manager on the Office Mix team . After working together for a couple of years , they began kicking around startup ideas . Eventually , they came up with the concept for Nextio , a platform that pays users for responding to messages from recruiters and offers other career - related insights . " Every day you receive messages from people outside your social networks , " Bala said . " A message from a recruiter about your dream job is very valuable to you . One from a Nigerian prince who wants to share his treasure -- not so much . Companies and individuals are spending real money to reach you ... but all of this money is going to a middleman . " Nextio officially launched earlier this month , with Bala serving as Chief Technology Officer . " I wear multiple hats at Nextio from architecting the product and writing code to talking to customers , working with legal and hiring , " Bala said . " About 70 percent of my time is spent in coding and working on the product , and 30 percent on strategies for getting traction and program management . " During his 16 years at Microsoft , Bala was as a partner engineering manager on a wide range of products , including Bing and Office . We caught up with Bala for this Working Geek , a regular GeekWire feature . Continue reading for his answers to our questionnaire . Current Location :   " Redmond , Wash. " Computer types : " I use a Windows workstation at work and a Mac Pro for my laptop . I work with a lot of data for the Career Insights tool , and we have built a custom in - memory database which requires a ton of RAM , and so my main machine has 64 GB of RAM . Having worked at Microsoft for most of my career , I 'm very used to Windows machines , but I wanted to try a Mac Pro for my laptop to get used to the Apple ecosystem . " Mobile devices : " I had been alternating between iPhone and Windows Phone while I was at Microsoft , but now I 'm just using an iPhone . My current phone is an iPhone 7s , and I love the battery life and the screen . " Favorite apps , cloud services , and software tools : " Microsoft Office is my favorite productivity tool , in part , because I can hack it to do anything I want . In my previous jobs at Microsoft , I built a feature to be able to search over all the commands in Office and as part of that , I became familiar with every single feature in Office . At work , we use Visual Studio , Microsoft Azure , Node.js to build our software , and GitHub and Zenhub to manage our work items , issues and for project management . Zenhub is really great to manage our tasks on top of GitHub . We also use Slack for team communication . " Describe your workspace . Why does it work for you ? " I have an identical computer setup both at work and at home with two 27-inch monitors . At work , we have an open space and it 's great for collaboration , but when I need to get stuff done or work on hard problems I like to work from home without any distractions . Working in a small team at work is a lot of fun since we all get along great , and it 's energizing to bounce ideas off each other . We also go out for lunch every day as a team and try out new restaurants . It 's a nice break during the day , and it 's great for team discussions . " Your best advice for managing everyday work and life ? " Working in a startup tends to be all - consuming , but it 's really important to carve out dedicated time for the family . I try to get home by 6 p.m. every day so that I can spend a few hours with my kids and wife , and then usually work later in the night after they have gone to sleep . In a startup , you are always severely under - resourced , so it 's critical to prioritize to ensure that you work on the tasks that give you the maximum return for the amount of effort you have to put in . " Your preferred social network ? How do you use it for business / work ? " I use our platform Nextio for messaging , as well as Whatsapp and Facebook to keep in touch with friends and for articles of interest . I follow several people on Facebook who share interesting content , but given that Facebook tends to keep showing you stuff that you like , it 's important to go out to other sites that might have the opposite viewpoint . " Current number of unanswered emails in your inbox ? " Since we are a small team , we do most of our discussions in person , and sometimes Slack . We do n't use Email as much , and so I only have 10 - 15 unanswered emails in my inbox . " Number of appointments / meetings on your calendar this week ? " Depending on the phase of the product we are working on , I might have a lot of meetings or very few . Within the team , we do not usually have formal meetings , but we sync up every day when everyone is in the office . This week I only had one formal meeting , and several interviews as we are looking for a great software developer . " How do you run meetings ? " We typically have two types of meetings - one about work items and priorities which are best discussed by working off a task board like Zenhub / GitHub , and brainstorming meetings that are more open - ended . While it is great to have robust discussions on various topics , it is important to designate an owner for the agenda item who can listen to all the arguments and everyone 's feedback , but make the final decision . " Everyday work uniform ? " Jeans and T - Shirt . " How do you make time for family ? " I try to get back home by 6 p.m. every day so that I get to spend some time with them before my kids go to sleep . I also carve out some time to spend with my wife where we usually end up watching some TV before starting to work again at night . " Best stress reliever ? How do you unplug ? " The best stress relievers for me are playing tennis and listening to comedy . Instead of the typical garage startup , our office is a pool cabana . We have a tennis court next door . When the weather is good , it 's great to get a half an hour of tennis in during the day . At home I love playing with my kids - we usually play tennis or cricket inside our house or in the backyard , and watching our favorite shows on TV with my wife . " What are you listening to ? " In the morning , during my commute , I listen to the radio . My favorite radio station is Movin ' 92.5 FM which plays the latest music and I love their morning show , ' Brooke and Jubal in the morning . ' I find that listening to comedy in the morning puts me in a good mood for the rest of the day . I also listen to various podcasts on startups and user growth . My favorite podcast for startup - related topics is ' This Week in Startups . ' " Daily reads ? Favorite sites and newsletters ? " I read the headlines on CNN and MSNBC , and get some of my news from Facebook . I also keep abreast of tech news at GeekWire , TechCrunch , and I subscribe to various startup - related newsletters like the Launch Ticker , the CB Insights newsletter , Term Sheet , First Round Review and Founder Hacks . " Book on your nightstand ( or e - reader ) " These days , I mostly read non - fiction books - many of them related to growing our user base and building products . Recent books I 've read include Traction by Gabriel Weinberg , Play Bigger by Al Ramadan , Pre - suasion by Robert Cialdini and Payoff by Dan Ariely . The last non - business book I read was " When Breath Becomes Air " , which is a very moving real story of the life of Dr. Paul Kalanithi who chronicles his journey as a doctor and his battles with cancer . " Night owl or early riser ? What are your sleep patterns ? " I am definitely a night owl . I try to sleep by 12:30 a.m. , and I get up around 6:30 a.m. " Where do you get your best ideas ? " I get my best ideas when I 've been thinking about the problem for several days , usually when I get up in the morning having thought about solutions to the problem the previous night . "