While startups are often associated with hi - tech gear and innovative ideas , it 's important to remember that food and beverage companies are changing the way people eat and drink every day . From innovative flavors to groundbreaking presentation , innovation has never been a more delicious experience . And if you 're wondering who 's supporting these burgeoning startups , look no further than Samuel Adams . Brewing the American Dream , Samuel Adams ' core philanthropic program , held its first - ever Pop - Up Pitch Room Competition in celebration of startups gathering in Austin for SXSW . The program offers micro - lending , coaching , and mentoring to food , beverage , and craft brewing small business owners around the country . And the winner is ... Barbecue Wife Bloody Mary Mix ! " I was on cloud nine and so humbled by the entire Pitch Room experience . As an entrepreneur , just having the validation that someone finds your business interesting by being selected to the final pitch round was a thrill in - itself , " said Catherine Stiles , founder of Barbecue Wife Bloody Mary Mix . " To have won both the judges selection and the People 's Choice Award , was beyond my comprehension . Stiles and the rest of the Barbecue Wife Bloody Mary team won a $ 10,000 business grant , a media package from Foursquare , and will receive extensive business mentorship from the team at Samuel Adams .   With such a lively food and beverage scene in Austin , it made sense that Samuel Adams implored drinkers at the event and nationwide to virtually vote on Facebook Live for the " People 's Choice Award , " a $ 5,000 prize which Stiles and the Barbecue Wife Bloody Mary Mix team also took home . " From amazing BBQ food trucks and taco stands to fellow craft breweries , the Austin food and drink scene is fueled by some of the most passionate people , " said Jennifer Glanville , Samuel Adams brewer . " Catherine is creating an inventive business , providing jobs , and making a local impact , not mention , Barbecue Wife Bloody Mary Mix is absolutely delicious . " Despite this being Samuel Adams ' first competition of the sort , their commitment to food and beverage startups is well documented . Brewing the American Dream launched in 2008 with the support of Accion , the nation 's leading nonprofit microlender . Through the support of Brewing the American Dream , Accion has lent more than $ 15.5 million to roughly 1,200 businesses nationwide . In addition , Samuel Adams has coached or mentored over 7,000 businesses and created or saved more than 4,900 jobs . Nearly $ 1 million of this capital has been lent to 40 U.S. brewers nationwide .