So you have an idea and now you need some financial support to get the ball rolling . At this point , seed capital can be helpful . Although the seed round is usually smaller and can come from many funding options ( friends , family , incubators , angels , VCs ) , it 's important to be strategic , because it builds the foundation for later rounds of funding . Since there 's no formula for how to do this and navigating this process can be overwhelming for budding entrepreneurs , we spoke to two seasoned VCs about some key things a fledgling entrepreneur needs to know when raising seed financing from a venture capital firm . A common question among new founders is : When is a good time to raise a seed round ? When a startup thinks they 're " onto something " , the time could be ripe to examine options for seed financing , said Florian Heinemann , founding partner of Project A Ventures , an early - stage investor and VC focusing on e - commerce , marketplaces and SaaS. " When they see the first signs of their idea potentially develop relevance , then it makes sense to think about whether this development could be accelerated by some additional funding to sharpen the business model , and pre - finance the development of an initial configuration , " he added . As for the amount , seed capital can range from EUR100,000 to EUR1 million . " I always find it difficult to tell anyone there 's an absolute amount that is correct " , explained Gabriel Matuschka , partner at Fly Ventures , a VC firm making seed and pre - Series A investments in the areas of machine learning , marketplaces and SaaS across Europe . " It 's a case - by - case and company - by - company thing . It really depends on the type of company and what you can do . " Typically though , the goal should be to raise enough to hit the next defined milestone with a bit of a buffer . " The seed round should be a step towards raising a Series A , so founders have to ask themselves what elements of their business they want to have proven by raising the Series A , " said Heinemann . " Often , this involves demonstrating first commercial traction , some understanding of profitability on a per customer level , and first scaling of the organization . Ideally the money should give them a runway of 15 - 18 months . " " At the seed stage , it 's not so much about metrics as it is about clarity and purpose . Investors want to know , ' Who are these people and what are they doing ? ' " said Matsuschka , who has worked on both sides of the table - as an entrepreneur and investor . Being able to describe your idea and talk about your team in a compelling manner is more important than showing metrics at this stage . Founders should know how to talk about their team , their product , the market , their story , their customers , the pace of product development , etc . in a very easy - to - understand and concise way . For entrepreneurs , the sheer amount of information at our fingertips can be both a blessing and a curse . When looking for resources on raising seed capital , Matuschka suggested looking at Seedsummit to get a grasp of core terms in venture , as well as getting an idea of the kinds of term sheets people use for UK or German deals . " If someone asks for 30 percent of the company , that 's probably wrong , if someone asks for more , that 's very wrong . If someone asks for 2.5 percent and gives you a million , the likelihood of them being a crook or not knowing what they 're doing is very high . There are certain ranges that are okay in terms of valuation , but the cool thing is that most of these things are already in the public domain today , " he added . Heinemann advised that entrepreneurs should educate themselves on the concept of vesting , cliff and liquidation preferences . When in doubt , consult experts . It 's not uncommon that startups go through a number of rounds of funding in their lifetime , so try to be as efficient as you can when going through this phase . " Speed is a critical element at the seed stage . A typical company in this stage is so small that this round occupies or distracts oftentimes many or all of the founders , " explained Matuschka . " Trying to get done with it sooner than later is an important element . " Regardless of how many investors participate in the seed round , it 's crucial to think about the reputation of your investors and whether they 're a good fit for your vision . " There are great investors that are probably just not great investors for you , " said Matushka . " Getting a sense of who the right person is for you because they understand your space and they 've done something there is key . " Additionally , Heinemann said that it 's important to be aware of the likelihood of participating investors to do or support follow - up rounds . Learn more about raising a seed round at Tech . Co .    This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .