Announced late last year as a quirky bot sidekick for your kitchen , Hello Egg was more novelty than functionality . Initially , it was part traditional egg timer , part Apple 's Siri or Amazon Alexa , and part YouTube video machine with a tiny screen . However , today at CES , RnD64 , the team behind the egg , announced a new focus of the product : artificial intelligence . Eggspert , Hello Egg 's web and mobile application , will allow users to automate their weekly meal prep planning and even order groceries . For those of us who endure the pains of meal prep every Sunday , we know all too well how much time can be consumed by simply planning out what to make . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ According to RnD64 , Eggspert will make it easy to plan weekly meals based on dietary preferences and also adjust to unplanned events . This builds upon the initial solution that would have Hello Egg act as a device to inspire you to cook more at home , cook with step - by - step instructions , and gain access to a 24/7 support team of cooking experts .   " The initial tests of Hello Egg went significantly well and the feedback we received after the product announcement has confirmed the need for a dedicated smart cooking assistant , " said Dmytro Shemet , CEO of RnD64 . " With Eggspert , we apply AI not only to facilitate the user 's kitchen experience but also to analyze their nutritional needs and optimize their cooking process on every level . " At the time of writing , Hello Egg is not yet available for pre - order and the price has not been listed ; however , it is said to ship in Q1 of this year . RnD64 is also the company behind the popular Petcube hardware we reviewed late last year . Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded .