Booking disability services online is n't exactly a straightforward process for those in need . Often getting by on basic funding , service providers for the most part do n't have the resources , nor time , to jazz up their websites or nail down search engine optimisation to help gain visibility .   Enter Seeva , an online marketplace for disability service providers that is looking to help increase their visibility by offering a central space for carers and users with disabilities to search and connect .   The platform onboards every service provider under the National Disability Insurance Scheme ( NDIS ) , a recent government funding initiative that helps Australians with disabilities pay for necessary care services .   Entering public testing in 2013 , the scheme officially began last year ; it is currently being rolled out across Australia , with the onboarding of service providers to continue over the next three years . Seeva 's cofounder , Shol Blustein , said development for the platform aligned itself with innovating around the new assets the NDIS offered , whereby a carer or person with disability was now " empowered " to choose which service provider they desired . According to Blustein , prior to the NDIS , disability services were " block - funded " by the government , meaning only a certain number of service providers were funded , each selected based on their ability to cover a region or age cohort . With an increase of service providers on board and relevant customers able to access them with an insurance backing , the NDIS meant an increased element of choice - a factor which Blustein said raised new issues . " Service providers themselves had very little online presence . The have a standard website , but there 's not a lot of visibility . This platform is trying to provide visibility and a lot more clarity and information about the services that are available , so the customer can find them and actually know the difference between each , " said Blustein . To begin onboarding service providers onto the platform , Blustein explained the startup simply accessed the public list of providers issued by the NDIS . An issue for Seeva , however , was translating the government 's structural information into an accessible format . " The real challenge was taking the way the NDIS describes services , which is a very bureaucratic and technical method to categorise things , and translating that into searchable categories , " Blustein explained . " We work exclusively with service providers and consumers to help them find service providers easily , so when someone searches for ' I want food cooked at home ' , they can get a list of search results . " Refining Seeva 's searching functionality was key to enabling the platform to cater for both a range of carers and users with disabilities , as the startup looked to develop a ' suggestions ' feature to help guide customers towards their search . " If you put in ' food ' , for example , you 'll be asked to narrow your search results into finer categories . Say , are you looking for a service to cook food at home , or are you looking at diet and nutrition , " explained Blustein . " If you select diet and nutrition , you 'll then again be asked whether you 're looking for a dietician or if you want to find a chemist to buy dietary products . " Considering the platform offers services pertaining to any type of disability , Blustein added that the startup had to take into consideration a number of other factors too besides search results , including altering font size , pagination , and adding an online help centre . " The feedback we received told us that this is a relationship - based process , and a lot of users wanted to be able to talk to someone , " said Blustein . Users are able to chat online to help find a service provider , or alternatively access a call helpline number which is listed on the site 's banner and home page .   The home page also features the search bar , which is accompanied by another search box where users are able to pin their location and determine how far they 're willing to travel for a service using a kilometre radius . From the list of search results , users are able to view a service provider 's " profile " which features all their information including location , pricing in addition to finer specifics such as dietary offerings . To book , users complete an online form where they detail all their basic information as well as any special requirements or information the provider needs to know . The form is then processed by Seeva to ensure all the details " fit the context " of the service provider , before being passed on .   " Although this is how things are done now , we 're currently working on adding an online booking system where users can view a live calendar of all the available appointment and booking times , " Blustein added . Since transactions are n't processed on the Seeva platform , Blustein said the startup takes a referral fee of 2.5 percent from the amount invoiced by the service provider , a number the cofounder said fits within the helping cater " limited margins " of profit NDIS services deal with .   To get the startup off the ground , Blustein said the business has raised half a million in private capital since its inception last year . Looking to build out other features on the platform , the cofounder added that the startup is now looking to raise $ 1 million and is currently in conversations with investors . " We really want to build out Seeva to make the transactional process as smooth as possible , so consumers can put in a broad range of keywords and still find services really easily , " he said .