Arivale 's Seattle 10 cocktail napkin . The scientific wellness startup was recognized as part of the Seattle 10 in 2015 . ( GeekWire Photo )   The field of scientific wellness may still be young , but Seattle 's Arivale -- a startup that takes a data - driven approach to health and wellness -- is chugging right along . The company was founded in 2014 by genetics pioneer Lee Hood and Arivale CEO Clayton Lewis , and has raised substantial funds since then to fuel its scientific wellness program . Now the company has announced a second program , one focused specifically on weight loss . The weight loss program works similarly to Arivale 's general wellness program . It is based on a slew of data about the participant : factors like genetics , family history , sleep patterns , stress , and biological markers like hormones are taken into account to develop a unique plan to help each participant to meet their goals . Participants work with a coach to make sure they stay on track with their tightly tailored nutritional and exercise regimens . Each participant also receives a Fitbit device and a connected scale so their coach can continue to collect data on their progress throughout the program . Arivale emphasizes that its new program is different from most weight loss plans because it ditches the one - size - fits - all approach , instead focusing on hard data that provides a unique plan for every participant . " Research is clear , people who struggle with excess body weight are dealing with a complex scenario of biological , genetic , behavioral and environmental factors , " Dr. Jennifer Lovejoy , Arivale 's chief translational science officer , in a statement . " And for the first time in my career , a systems approach is available to address the inherent complexity of losing weight and help people optimize their wellness . " The weight loss program is currently available to residents of Washington , Oregon , and California and is priced at $ 3,000/year per person , until the end of February . [ Editor 's Note : GeekWire 's chief business officer , Daniel Rossi , is taking part in Arivale 's general wellness program to help manage his Type 2 diabetes and related health concerns . GeekWire is paying for the program as part of an independent review of Arivale , and Daniel 's experience is being documented in this special series . ]