Would n't it have been amazing to sing backup for Bowie , sit in the front row of a lecture by Einstein , visit the lab with Marie Curie or gaze into outer space with Buzz Aldrin ? Sadly , the first three are no longer with us , but Buzz is and he 's been digitized as a volumetric hologram by VR / AR startup 8i so he 's future - proofed for eternity . 8i started in New Zealand and has several staffers , including co - founder and CTO Eugene d'Eon , who worked with Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson at Weta Digital . 8i recently opened an L.A. offshoot , in a temporary space on a soundstage at Culver Studios ( where Orson Welles 's Citizen Kane and the 1960's - era Batman TV show were both filmed ) while its new office is being constructed . PCMag met up with CEO Linc Gasking -- who sold one of his earlier startups , countingdown.com , to Dreamworks -- to get a demo and find out what 's on the slate for 2017 . Unlike many VR houses , 8i has an actual business model and clients , including NASA and Time Inc. It just released a high - profile VR digitization of Matrix Academy , an educational tool for hairdressers , for L'Oreal . The company trained more than 2 million hairdressers globally in 2015 , but with the new VR tool , student numbers will increase exponentially . The off - the - shelf rig 8i used for the Matrix project has " 40 Point Grey cameras , with Sony CMOS sensors , pointing in , rather than out , " Gasking said . " The cameras capture a multitude of angles simultaneously which are sent to the cloud for processing using 8i 's patent - pending software , to create a volumetric hologram . "   Volumetric VR means " you 're free to move around the person you 're watching as if you 're in the same room , and it has presence which tricks your mind into thinking that you really are there , " he said , which heightens " the emotional connection far beyond the limited experience of 360 video . " Rachel Weiss , VP of Innovation and Entrepreneurship at L'Oreal , told PCMag she saw 8i 's demo at CES 2016 and was instantly taken with the tech . " We recognized early on that VR could have a profound impact on the highly visual and community - driven beauty industry and wanted to create an experience that was incredibly lifelike . After a few minutes testing the experience [ at CES ] , we knew immediately they were the right partner for us . " The one technical challenge along the way has been rendering hair , which is one of the hardest aspects to get right in the 3D reconstruction of humans , " she said . " 8i has worked closely with us to tackle this issue and we 're looking forward to bringing the full experience to market in 2017 . "   Gasking pointed out that the new VR teaching tool will enable top stylists to cut down on physical travel , as well as reach more potential students worldwide , pretty much instantly . " You can get up close and actually see what 's happening without having to physically be there . The other thing that 's important is it 's an actual person -- it 's not a computer - generated figure -- it feels real , because it is . " I can attest to this . When I did the demo , there was something in my brain that would n't let me walk through the hologram , even though , logically , I knew it was digital . It was most curious . Here 's what happened : I put on the HTC Vive and headphones . Suddenly , a Matrix stylist materialized , welcomed me and explained the day 's tasks . I quickly took a full 360-degree scan of the room and the illusion was complete . My head believed it was inside a hair salon . We cut -- seamlessly , as if I 'd done a time lapse body jump -- to another room and I peered up close , watching the stylist explain flat - iron techniques on a hair model . You can see how students will find this VR tool entirely normal pretty soon . On the soundstage , we got a sneak peek at some more evolved high - end holograms for proof - of - concept " wow " pitches , including examples from the R&D lab in New Zealand of upcoming holograms . It 's also too early to talk about specifics , but communications chief Amy Sezak indicated 8i will put out a commercial version of its software sometime in 2017 . What 's really interesting about 8i is that , unlike many other companies , it has flipped the digital fabrication process . Instead of starting with motion capture and building a digital avatar from that framework , it went the other way , most noticeably with the recent project for Time magazine with Buzz Aldrin , who recorded messages for scientists training for Mars missions .   Six people lived at a University of Hawaii Mars simulation site from August 2015 to August 2016 in order to study the effects of long - term isolation . They received holographic recordings of Aldrin and vocal artist / comedian Reggie Watts , " which when viewed in virtual reality , simulate true presence and could help mitigate the feeling of isolation , " according to 8i . Those recordings will be released to the public in early 2017 as part of the Time Live VR project . Those with Google Cardboard or VR headsets like Gear VR , Oculus Rift and HTC Vive can download the app and experience Aldrin and Watts in VR . " As with the Buzz Aldrin example , we are focused on getting the VR industry to take a leap over the ' uncanny valley , ' " Gasking said . 8i can not confirm or deny this , but the reason a move to L.A. must have made sense , is that Hollywood studios are looking to digitize their movie stars for eternity . Bearing in mind his company 's technology now makes this possible , which important figure from history does Gasking wish he could still interact with ? " I 'd really like to have heard first - hand from New Zealander Edmund Hillary about his experiences climbing Everest , that 's for sure , " he told PCMag . Would n't it be brilliant , rather than purchasing an audiobook and listening to it on a digital device , if one could rent a hologram of Douglas Adams , who would sit on the other end of the sofa and read those immortal lines : " Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end of the Western Spiral arm of the Galaxy . " Adams is no longer with us either , but many geek - favored writers are . Let 's hope they are booked into the 8i soundstage by their publishers soon .