For years , Silicon Valley has been the tech haven of the world . With more patents , more unicorn companies , and more overall innovation than anywhere in the world , it was hard to argue with the Bay Area 's status as the best city for tech . However , all kingdoms must fall , and according to one real estate firm , this one already has . According to research from Savills , a UK based real estate firm , the best city for tech is no longer San Francisco , thanks to the outlandish living costs and understandable over - saturation of the market . Despite it 's obviously tech - focused environment , the cost of business was simply too high to be considered the best city for tech . So who dethroned the long time champion of tech ? Which US city was able to inspire innovation , muster manpower , and keep real estate costs below a king 's wage in pursuit of the perfect city for tech ? If you thought it was going to be another coastal city , you could n't be more wrong , as Austin , Texas , took the crown . " Access to venture capital and talent give US cities a lead on other global centers , " wrote the authors of the study , who compiled a full 22-city list for the entire world . " Austin beats San Francisco to the top of the table because it is so successful in attracting human capital . " As a cost - effective , talent - rich alternative to Silicon Valley , Austin was the obvious number one for plenty of reasons . Not only do tech giants like IBM , Dell , and AMD have long standing presences in the Texas city , but the decidedly entrepreneurial culture makes startups feel welcomed and inspired as soon as they set up shop . Plus , being the home of SXSW does n't hurt . As for the other cities on the list , there are n't many surprises , with New York , Seattle , and Boston rounding out the top five in the US . For a more comprehensive look at the top cities around the world , not just in the US , take a look at the graph below and make sure to download the entire report here to figure out why your city did n't make the cut . Read more reports and rankings here on Tech . Co  