If you think about the layout of a worksite , for most what will first come to mind is an image of tradies scattered across the highs and lows of a structure being built . Managing employees over an open area full of potential dangers is difficult , and as such it 's one that a number of startups entering the market have looked to solve . One of these solutions is Safesite , an Australia - founded startup aiming to facilitate safety management on worksites through sharing and analytics via an app . Another is Perth - based Cribber , a new player in the space biting down on facilitating communication between tradies and site managers for a small monthly cost . The Cribber platform allows managers to share information with their workers and stakeholders through a content " bulletin board " . Acting like a private social stream , tradies around a worksite are able to view content , while site managers are able to view who has engaged with it for the purpose of ensuring compliance and employee engagement . Mike Watson , who developed Cribber alongside cofounder Jasmin Ward , explained that the solution was built to fit the on - the - go , deskless lifestyle of tradies , who typically do n't access traditional communication or project management tools . " Everyone on the worksite is on their phone in the crib room and when they 're around the site . We knew most of the frontline workforce was n't going to have a desk and a computer , so the app is the way we access them , " he said . Watson 's insights came directly from within the construction industry , where he spent 10 years working as an engineer on worksites in both Australia and the Middle East . Here , Watson explained he noticed a distinct lack of engagement with the way communication was dished out to site workers on a daily basis . " In a way it was really patronising , and a lot of the time the workers would n't retain the information depending on who was sharing it . So I left my job between September and August last year and we began working on it , " said Watson . The startup entered Perth 's Founder Institute incubator program , which helped push the early stage idea towards commercialisation . Key to progressing through the incubation process , Watson said , was the focus both cofounders had on conducting market research , a process which helped the pair " validate " their ideas . " We went out to conduct 100 customer reviews to really nail down what the problem was that we were solving . That really helped us get some traction . Once we had some traction and a little bit of revenue it was easier to get to the next stage , " he said . The next stage for the business came in the form of joining the Plus Eight accelerator program , run in conjunction with muru - D , earlier this year , which will provide the startup with $ 40,000 in seed funding and industry insight once the program rounds up in a few months ' time . While developing Cribber , Watson said the startup took into mind potential competitors , which would help define the product 's point of difference as a communicative and compliance focused tool . " We know there are lots of other apps and management systems out there that do inspection forms and reporting and that type of thing . Our assessment is targeting the front line workforce , while those other tools are mainly used for supervisors and managers , " Watson added . In Cribber 's current model , workers interact with content rather than post it themselves , with Watson saying that will be open for change in coming updates . Interaction typically comes in the form of opening a post and reading it , but tradies are also able to e - sign a document confirming they 've read it if requested by a manager . Through the app , tradies are able to receive push notifications is a message pops up while they 're working , and also share content online with family and friends . For site managers , content is posted and curated through an online web portal . " They create a moderated feed of information that 's supposed to be quite direct and avoid a lot of the noise you find in other communication tools out there . They can also invite other users and create teams to split up users , to customise content to go to different groups , " said Watson . According to Watson , a typical day will see at least three to four bulletins going out , across things like traffic management plans , daily safety notices , and weather reports . The cofounder added that Cribber is also intended for other side content too , such as work events and bus timetable postings for remote jobs . " Then on the compliance side , if the admin sends out something that they want to know that all their employees have read and understood , they can send out a request for that , " he explained . Looking to further empower Cribber 's compliance and communicative potential , the startup is also looking into adding other analytical metrics such as engagement time and response speed . " Eventually we 'll add coaching around the bulletins , so analysing what the message is and seeing what words and content can help improve the effectiveness of communication , " Watson added . Since Cribber 's target industries of mining , construction , and oil already contain " some big players " , according to Watson , the startup will look to focus on setting itself apart and growing a reputable basis through its first client companies . With Canadian and New Zealand businesses already taking interest , Cribber will look to further its local and global reach through the raising of up to $ 500,000 in seed funding for development .