Arzeda combines cloud computing and bioengineering to create ' cell factories . ' ( Arzeda Photo )   Here 's a wacky concept . Imagine you could give a microorganism , like yeast , specific instructions on what to produce during fermentation . Through the same process used to make beer or sourdough bread , you could coax the yeast into producing any chemical compound or enzyme you like . That may sound like science fiction , but Arzeda says it 's already a reality . The Seattle biotech startup is using this fermentation process to create " everything from the material used to make the tent you take on camping trips , to eco - friendly paints , and even pharmaceuticals or food ingredients , " according to CEO Alexandre Zanghelini . Arzeda 's customers are using the technology in areas like agriculture and manufacturing . " We are also using the technology to develop our own innovative products , " said Zanghelini . " We 're looking forward to the day when industrial , environmental and health challenges are routinely addressed by designing the perfect molecule for the job . " Arzeda is made up of a team of computational biologists -- Doctors Eric Althoff , David Baker , Daniela Grabs , and Zanghelini . Their work has been published in the academic journals Science and Nature . We caught up with Zanghelini for this Startup Spotlight , a regular GeekWire feature . Continue reading for his answers to our questionnaire . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " Arzeda uses synthetic biology and cloud computing to make the products we need more sustainable , perform better , and cost less . " Inspiration hit us when : " While at the University of Washington 's Institute for Protein Design we realized how we could use cloud computing to sort through trillions of possible combinations , design new enzymes and assemble them into the best biochemical pathways to make custom - designed molecules . We published our results and founded Arzeda the same year . " VC , Angel or Bootstrap : " Bootstrap . Bootstrapping at first allowed us to experiment a lot in the marketplace and find the best commercial applications of our technology . It allowed us to gain solid traction in partnerships with large Fortune 500 leaders in their business . Bootstrapping also forced us to have the discipline to develop a very lean operation ( we did not have running water when we started our lab operations ) . It 's very rare in biotech , and we are very proud of that . We all worked hard to accomplish this and it certainly had an impact on our personal lives . Long term , to reach the scale we envision , we will need outside capital . But having paying customers , proof that the technology works and a lean organization is what any investor wants to see . " Our ' secret sauce ' is : " Our secret sauce is found in the tight integration we have built between the latest biotechnology techniques and extremely powerful computing . That 's why our geeks ( software developers ) and lab - rats ( molecular biologists ) work side - by - side in the same open space . We could choose to be a biotech company , or we could choose to be a software company , but the combination is what makes Arzeda greater than the sum of its parts . " The smartest move we 've made so far : " Getting off the ground . Starting a company to build a synthetic biology technology platform that nobody has ever used before sounds like a big lift -- and it is -- but once we got started the momentum has carried us . Also , not spending $ 50,000 on a branding firm to create our name . We did it by rearranging the initials of the founders until we landed on something that sounded biotech - y . " The biggest mistake we 've made so far : " Some of our deals have taken longer to arrange than we expected . This is a brand - new technology , and countless industries can make use of it . It takes time to communicate the full potential . " Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : " We use AWS for our cloud services so the shout - out goes to Bezos . Still , all three of these guys know what it takes to innovate something entirely new . Maybe we can find a way to isolate the most successful genetics of each ? " Our favorite team - building activity is : " We are headquartered in a Seattle neighborhood with loads of new microbreweries . It lends itself very well to team - building . " The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : " A strong alignment with our values , and a vision for synthetic biology and its potential to change the world for the better . " What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : " Running a startup will have an enormous impact on your personal life , so make sure what you are working for is worth the stress . That 's what we have done and the ride has been great . We would n't want to be doing anything else . "