There are a few particularly popular niches within the Australian fintech space , with online small business lenders to platforms allowing consumers to find and negotiate the right home loan particularly hot areas . Another is investment , with offerings popping up to target a breadth of consumers . From the likes of Acorns , which is gathering up a user 's ' loose change ' and investing it for them , through to Brickx allowing users to invest in property brick by brick , and Stockspot using AI to help better invest its customers ' money , the choice for the consumer is vast . Adding another option to the mix is Sydney startup Stake . Founded by Matthew Leibowitz , Jon Abitz , and Daniel Silver , the platform wants to offer Australian investors easier and cheaper access to US stocks and exchange traded funds ( ETFs ) than previously available . The idea was born out of Leibowitz 's time at US trading firm Optiver , where he saw a vast spread of product available to consumers at an affordable price . " Australia is on the opposite end ... limited product suite , hard to access , and expensive . It was obvious to me that Australians were getting a raw deal , " he explained . Getting asked by friends where to invest , Leibowitz found there was nothing he really wanted to recommend ; Stake is the result , with simplicity at its core . " Equity markets have been a great source of wealth creation and a key component in economic and technological growth for centuries , but accessing them has been expensive , complicated , and full of conflict , " Leibowitz said . As Leibowitz explained it , Stake works just like any other online shopping experience - " you can manage your investments as simply as buying a new pair of shoes , " he said . " If you wanted to find an investment related to shoes , you would type ' shoes ' into the searchbar , and out would come the shares like Nike , Foot Locker , and Steve Madden . If you wanted to invest in oil - related stocks , you type ' oil ' , then narrow down the search based on the share type or region of the company or fund , just like you would when playing around on Domain.com.au . " Adding to the e - commerce experience , users can also see related shares after checking out a company , in the same way the ' see what others bought with this ' message comes up on a product page on Amazon , while users can also buy others gift cards . A Discovery bar also shows users curated opportunities based on what 's happening in the world or market , looking to help give users an understanding of the various factors driving market conditions , while users can also follow the portfolios of big - name investors like Warren Buffett or see what global traders are doing . " It 's important for us that every person visiting or using Stake can become more educated when it comes to investing , " Leibowitz said . Aside from education and e - commerce experience , the core to the platform 's appeal is to be its low costs . If placing an order for up to 300 shares , the cost will be US$ 5.99 , with a further fee of 2c per share for the buying of any shares beyond 300 . The likes of CommSec , meanwhile , charge 0.31 percent of the value of a trade , while Westpac charges 0.65 percent of the value of a trade . Of course , not everyone is making huge buys ; as such , though Leibowitz said the platform is for " anyone who wants to manage their wealth better " , Stake is more focused on the market the cofounders themselves are in : the 30 - 45 year old professional who does n't want to go through a financial advisor . " This market recognizes that investing is a vital part of wealth creation , they are returns - focused , digitally savvy and expect value above talk , " Leibowitz said . The development of Stake has been supported by a number of partners , including Macquarie , which providers users with an Australian cash management account ; OFX , powering its foreign exchange transfer service ; and Sanlam Private Wealth , which also operates the investment service of fintech startup Stockspot , providing oversight on Stake 's compliance . Orders are executed through Stake 's US broker dealer , DriveWealth . These partnerships have enabled Stake to automate the whole process , including the W-8BEN form non - US residents must fill out to have withholding tax deducted , which is handled by DriveWealth . " We 've built an internal and external API suite , which allows us to leverage the skills of our partners so we can focus on the user experience and know that there is full transparency over the money flows , ensuring that the customer 's assets are safe , " Leibowitz said . There are currently over 3,000 US listed shares on Stake , with the startup keen to consider ASX listed stocks if it sees demand from users . It will also look to offer trust and self - managed super fund accounts down the track . The Australian fintech space is hotter than ever , with investment a particularly strong space , however Leibowitz is confident in Stake 's product . " Some would argue that the big four banks and their subsidiary brokers are competitors , but working with them to bring a better solution to market is actually something I encourage , " Leibowitz said . " We have a great product and these banks have strong distribution ; there can be significant wins for the Australian consumer if we work together . It could be a win , win . "