Vitaly M. Golomb leads global investments at HP Tech Ventures , the corporate venture arm of Silicon Valley 's original startup and is the author of Accelerated Startup , a book about ramping up your business . Below is a fascinating excerpt from the book about Golomb 's favorite thing : pitching . If you 've ever seen me speak at an event , you have probably noticed that I get very excited and passionate about pitching . There 's an excellent reason for that . I believe that a great pitch is useful in so many walks of business . As the CEO of a company , you 'll be pitching your startup morning , noon and night . Short , 90-second elevator pitches . Three- to six - minute pitches as part of a demo day or a pitch competition . And finally , the Holy Grail : in a VC 's office , for a 30- to 60-minute explanation of what the future looks like , if you have anything to do about it . Becoming a truly great pitch artist takes a lot of practice , which I encourage you to invest time in . But that does n't mean that there 's any excuse for having a downright poor pitch . First things first , what is a pitch ? In my mind , it 's a narrative that ends in a specific call to action . You 're pitching because you want something from someone . Maybe you want their advice , their business or ( in the context we 'll be focusing on here ) their investment . Whatever you 'll be pitching for in the future , know that you 've done many pitches for your business already . You probably pitched your friends , family and significant other to convince them that this crazy startup thing you 're about to embark on was a good idea . Maybe you pitched your old boss to let you work part time , or when you told him or her you were considering quitting your job . The " call to action " part of the pitch is extremely important . If you 're including stuff in your pitch that does n't help build the case for your call to action , you should absolutely scrub it from the script . For example , a 90-second elevator pitch has the same purpose as the introductions we talked about in Chapter 28 . The idea is to get a meeting . You do n't get a meeting by speaking extra fast and loading tons and tons of information into your pitch . You 're not trying to explain everything ; you 're trying to share enough information to pique their curiosity and make them want to learn more . Most pitches take place on a stage , of sorts . Not always a literal stage , but a stage nonetheless . Like everything delivered from a stage , your pitch is a performance . If your business is the most innovative thing on stage that day but you 're staring at your shoes , mumbling and reading from the slides ... guess who wo n't be getting a phone call . As your company grows and evolves , you 'll probably get to do a number of three - minute pitches , as part of accelerator demo days , pitch competitions , and so on . The goal here is the same : get that meeting . But there are also a couple of other objectives . If you are part of a large , well - known accelerator , you 're probably a great startup , but you have a problem : you will be pitching alongside dozens , if not a hundred , other startups . They 've all been prepped well . They all need to raise money . That means your goal changes : out of the hundreds of pitches your audience will sit through , you need to stand out enough that you 're remembered . When the investors go home at the end of the day , their notepads will have a ton of notes scribbled down on them . Your goal is to ensure that there 's a circle around your company 's name , and a dollar sign in the margin . Think of every pitch you do as a competition . You 're pitching to win the grand prize in a competitive field . That means you need to be rehearsed , prepared , well rested and ready for battle . The prize , by the way ? Yeah , that 's that meeting we were talking about . It is a little bit like winning a hot - dog eating competition , only to learn that the prize is a jumbo - sized hot dog , but trust me : it 's worth it . The meeting will include another pitch , this time about 20 minutes in length . If they like what they 're hearing and if there 's a good back - and - forth happening , the meeting will stretch to an hour . So , what goes into the pitch , any pitch ? First of all , you need to capture your audience 's attention . They have their phones in their hand , and they are probably checking Twitter and reading emails as they watch your pitch . If they hear something interesting halfway through your pitch and decide to start paying attention , they wo n't have heard anything up to that point . That sucks for you , but it 's the reality of things . So , you need to lead with the one thing that will get their attention . The single most important part of your presentation : traction . How well is your company doing ? How many users do you have ? How fast are you growing ? How much revenue are you generating ? If your numbers are good , chances are that the investors will pay attention , even if they 're not immediately interested in your space . If someone is pitching something that is consistently growing at 50 percent per week , I 'm reaching for my checkbook , and you can explain to me what it is later . It 's that simple . The next part of your pitch is what your company is about . Who is your customer , and what is the problem you are solving ? This is important because if I do n't know those two things , I do n't have any context for evaluating the company . As I discussed in Chapter 20 , it 's much easier to start with a very focused customer . Make them obsessed about the product , and expand from there . In other words : it is a far better story to say that a third of people in San Francisco use your product and that you have a plan for scaling it to the rest of the world , rather than saying that 200,000 people use your product worldwide . The absolute numbers might be the same , but the implication and the story are vastly different . There is no shame to limiting your user base geographically , or to a more narrowly focused market , but make sure you explain that as part of your presentation . Okay , we 've now checked off your traction and the market , and explained why the problem is important to the users . Next , consider exploring how the problem is currently being solved . It is unlikely that you came along and found a completely new market . Uber did n't invent transportation ; they just looked at the taxi industry and thought , " You know what ? That 's terrible , we can do better . " In explaining how customers are currently solving these problem , you are helping illustrate that it is worth solving . If nobody is experiencing the problem you have a solution for , I have some bad news for you : you do n't have a business . The same goes for competitors , by the way . If you do n't have any , it means there is no problem , there 's no market and you do n't have a business . If your presentation has gone well up to this point , the audience is at the edge of their seats . They know the market , they feel the problem and now they are eager to hear how you 're going to solve this problem . Explain how your solution is perfect for the task at hand . I like to compare painkillers to vitamins : if your solution is something that 's nice to have that people ca n't be bothered restocking when they run out , you are facing a challenge . Conversely , when my Advil bottle is half empty , you 'd better believe I 'll be stopping at a pharmacy on my way home . Be Advil , not vitamins , and make sure that your audience knows it . Trust me , everything I 've explained above can be done in 90 seconds . For presentations where you have more than just a quick elevator ride worth of time , hit the audience with the how . If you have 20 minutes , it 's time for a live demo . If the clock is running out , a few screen shots do the trick . Either way , the investors want to know exactly how you 're going to deliver on your promises . For something to be a VC - investable proposition , the next part of your pitch is going to be all about the market . It had better be huge . It needs to be , because otherwise the VCs are n't interested in placing a bet on you . Explain how big the market is , and how quickly it is growing . In fact , the speed of growth of a market is even more important than its current size . If you are coming into a big market that 's stagnant , you 'll have to take each customer from a competitor with a bigger name , more money and more trust . On the other hand , if you become a leading player in a market growing 100% per year , you will grow that fast by just playing the game . Next , it 's time to explain what your business model is . How are you going to attract new customers and how is your company going to make money ? How will you find new customers , how much does it cost and how long does it take ? How soon will you break even on them ? How much revenue will they bring your company over their lifetime ? And now that we understand the total market size and your business model , provide some summary financials . How much money will you be making in three years ? How big will your team need to be then ? Something your investors will definitely want to learn more about is your management team . As investors , they are about to place a sizable bet on your company . They need to be convinced that the people in the company know what they are doing and have the capacity to deliver . If you and your team have built companies and exited them before , brag about it . If you used to work at Budweiser , and you 're about to launch a product that makes selling more beer easier , make that clear . If you are the foremost expert in the world on something and you have a doctorate to prove it , shout it from the rooftops . I would n't spend too much time on this in short pitches , but if you have a little bit more time , do so . Remember , your company 's chance of success will be guesstimated based on your traction and your team . Ideas are cheap , execution is everything . This part of your pitch is where you explain to your audience that you have the right team to execute your idea . If there 's even the slightest doubt in your mind that you have the right team , then stop pitching and start hiring . Right . That 's it for your pitch , except the most important part : closing the deal . A great way to end your pitch is to restate why you 're there . " We have some really smart tech that will change the way you order groceries , and the best , most experienced team in the business . We are raising $ 2 million . My details are on the screen , please email me to find out more . " Perfect , clean and to - the - point . For the pitching itself , I want to briefly talk about body language . I strongly recommend getting some one - to - one training with a pitch coach . This is part of the package in an accelerator , but even if you haven't gone through an accelerator program ( yet ) , try to find someone who can see you in action and give you some pointers . Exuding confidence , planting your feet solidly on the ground , projecting your voice well and working on having eye contact with your audience is crucial and not that difficult to master . All it takes is some practice . A few investors will ask you to send them your slides before you pitch to them , which is a little bit awkward . If you 've ever seen a very good presentation , you realize that the slides are there to help set the pace and to illustrate what the presenter is saying . It does n't tell the full story . If you send the slide deck to your investors , they probably wo n't understand what the deal is , so I typically recommending saving it for the meeting . One way around this issue ( worth considering especially if you are based geographically far away from potential investors ) is to prepare two slide decks . One is your normal deck for presenting , the other is an executive summary designed for reading and getting a feel for what you 're about to present . Albert Einstein once said , " If you ca n't explain it simply , you do n't understand it well enough . " Bear that in mind ; if you ca n't explain your company to a room full of investors who may not be experts on your market segment , go back to the drawing board .   