BigStock Photo .   Ever feel like there 's just too much information out there ? New York - based Agolo is hoping so . The startup is developing a program that summarizes large amounts of information using artificial intelligence -- and it 's one of two AI startups that announced new funding Wednesday from Microsoft 's corporate investment arm , Microsoft Ventures . Agolo 's funding , first reported by VentureBeat , was a $ 3.5 million seed round co - led by Microsoft Ventures and Bay Area firm CRV . The second Microsoft Ventures investment is Berkeley , Calif .- based Bonsai , which develops an AI platform that helps companies build their own intelligent enterprise tools . Bonsai announced a $ 7.6 million round of funding Wednesday co - led by Microsoft Ventures and Maryland - based firm NEA . While the timing of the investments is a coincidence , they do point to Microsoft 's dedication to artificial intelligence technology . The company has a robust internal AI R&D program , and Microsoft Ventures started a fund dedicated in " AI companies focused on inclusive growth and positive impact on society " in December of last year . " It 's still early days for our AI fund , but with a plethora of amazing startups out there , I 'm confident in our ability to find and support more startups that are responsibly harnessing the power and promise of AI , " Nagraj Kashyap , corporate vice president at Microsoft Ventures , wrote in a blog post announcing the funding . " By investing in startups like Agolo and Bonsai , Microsoft Ventures is supporting Microsoft 's commitment to democratizing AI and empowering people and businesses for years to come , " he said . Bonsai 's platform has been used to automate systems including robotics , manufacturing , supply chain , logistics , energy and utilities . The company also announced a new Early Access Program on Wednesday , designed to help companies introduce enterprise AI systems . Agolo 's tech uses artificial intelligence in a very different way . The startup 's platform uses natural language processing to " read " texts selected by a user . The algorithm then makes connections between the texts and " writes " a summary of the information . Agolo co - founder and CEO Sage Wohns told VentureBeat that the company is already partnering with some of the world 's biggest media companies . " There 's a crucial need for making sense of the world 's information and Agolo is filling that void . Our platform partnerships with our investors have helped us become indispensable to media companies -- it 's hard to find a media company we do n't work with . And there are broader applications in diverse sectors , including financial services , " he said . The company is n't alone in its quest to turn creative processes over to AI . North Carolina - based Automated Insights is working to write " human sounding " articles from pure data , for example . And Microsoft is in good company in Seattle 's AI world -- last year , Apple acquired Seattle - based machine learning startup Turi , and has opened an AI - focused engineering center in the city . Research at the University of Washington and the nonprofit Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence is also driving Seattle 's AI scene , with spin - outs like Kitt.ai starting to build an AI startup ecosystem .