Incubators exist to create healthy startups that can then help the incubator out in a virtuous cycle . The problem : Sometimes the startup just leaves the area , drawn to one of the limited number of truly massive tech hubs in the nation . It 's a problem that hovers over Orlando incubators . At least , according to a new incubator that thinks it can crack the issue . Two established Orlando tech companies , Pandera Systems and REV Acceleration , are hoping to invest in locking down Central Florida 's tech talent with the launch of Tech and Beers , a new Orlando - based incubator and fund for tech startups . Tech . Co had a chat with REV CEO Ty Tucker on the current problem and how they hope to fix it . Ty 's views on Central Florida 's tech support : " Today , ninety percent of startups will fail -- many of which could have had the potential to share their solutions to real world problems through the implementation of innovative technology , if only they had the money , tools and support to make it happen . While there are many incubators around the world that are helping start - ups achieve great success , we could n't help but notice that the support available to up - and - coming tech leaders in Central Florida is sorely lacking . Many of these programs only provide start - ups with limited funding and space to work , but neglect to consider the extensive level of support necessary to really get a start - up going . " So how do they plan on keeping local tech talent in Orlando in order to elevate the city 's national reputation as a thriving hub of innovation ? The same way most incubators plan to : Plenty of funds , office space and potential seed money . Here 's Ty again : " Tech and Beers fills in the gaps with initial micro - funding , office space and access to potential seed round(s ) of up to $ 1 million , in addition to the stuff that happens on the back - end : operational support , experienced counselling on business strategy , and access to REV and Pandera 's worldwide distribution channel . This includes partners and customers at Fortune 500 companies . " Joshua Sutton , CEO of Pandera Systems , highlighted the initiative 's meetups : " A huge part of this initiative will be our monthly Tech and Beers meetups , which bring the local tech community together to discuss how we can join forces to accelerate technology growth and innovation in Orlando . " The next meetup happens Thursday , Feb. 23 , 2017 , and the details are available here . Entrepreneurs and would - be founders in Orlando should keep an eye out for Tech and Beers events : Regardless of your opinion on Central Florida 's brain drain , new incubators are always welcome and meetups are a great way to connect with your local ecosystem .