John Suk . ( WTIA Photo )   The Washington Technology Industry Association 's Board of Directors has a new chairman : John Suk , a Harvard and University of Chicago graduate with a 20-year career in tech leadership in the Seattle area . Suk is a vet of several mobile technology companies , including Verizon Wireless , and currently serves as the director for strategic enterprise at Current , General Electric 's lighting division . He has served as the vice - chairman of the WTIA 's board of directors since 2014 , and replaces outgoing chairman Bill Richter , who left his position early as he takes on the role of CEO at Qumulo . " We have one of the strongest technology communities that is so well - balanced between large enterprise , mid - sized enterprise , SMB , and startups / incubators . Our demand for top talent in these industries continues to draw the brightest , most ambitious and socially - conscious people that challenge the limits of what is considered possible . We are also seeing a groundswell of home - grown talent right here in Washington that is being supported by tech - friendly legislators in Olympia , " Suk said in a Q&A on the WTIA 's website . Suk is the first person of color to serve as chairman in the board 's 30-year history . " So many of my amazing predecessors ( including our outgoing chairman , Bill Richter ) who still serve on the WTIA board have provided me with the motivation and mentorship that will help me build on what they have developed over the years , " Suk said of this milestone . " I hope to inspire all people who are interested in technology to strive to achieve their goals in both work and education . " -- It 's not news that Amazon is planning to expand its Prime program to countries overseas , notably China and India . What is news is who will be leading the efforts : according to a report from Recode , that person is Jamil Ghani , a rising star at Target who Amazon poached last week .   As of publishing , Ghani 's LinkedIn profile lists his current position as Senior Vice President of Strategy & Innovation at Target , but he was no longer listed among Target 's leadership on their website . Amazon hasn't confirmed the hire . The Recode article cites Amazon and Target execs with knowledge of the move . Ghani has been at Target since 2011 , holding a variety of business development and strategy positions . Before joining the company , he served as director of global marketing strategy and planning for the Disney theme parks for four years . -- Zipwhip , a startup that provides text messaging services from desktops and over the web , announced five new senior executive hires today as a result of the $ 9 million Series B investment it received from Microsoft Ventures , among others , in October . The new executives include former Expedia exec and now Director of Product Management Fernando Cuadra ; Director of Software Development Roman Prigozhin ; Director of Marketing Anna Henningsgaard ; Controller Rebecca Conner ; and Director of Operations Daniel deMarteleire . -- Icertis , a Bellevue , Wash. , based startup that offers cloud - based contract management services , announced two leadership changes this week : former Microsoft and Smartsheet exec Peter Boit will serve as Icertis ' executive VP for business development , and Chris Barone , a former DocuSign exec , will serve as the company 's VP of Commercial Sales for North America . Boit comes to Icertis from his position as executive VP of sales at Smartsheet . Before that , he spent fifteen years in leadership positions at Microsoft and three years at Silicon Valley 's Juniper Networks . " Icertis immediately stood out for me as a company with the right culture and values and a huge opportunity to be a transformational leader , " Boit said in a press release . " Contract management touches virtually every department within most every enterprise . I see endless opportunities to add to and build on Icertis ' strong strategic partner network to drive even greater value for customers and growth for the company . " Barone joins Icertis after a three - year stint at electronic signature manager DocuSign . " DocuSign and Icertis have a long - standing partnership , and through that I 've had the opportunity to witness the impressive growth and adoption of Icertis ' platform from a front row seat , " Barone said . " The digital transformation taking place within the enterprise is unprecedented , fueled by the need to operate more efficiently while meeting mounting compliance and regulatory concerns . Icertis is in an incredibly exciting position and I look forward to the opportunity to execute on the company 's vision of making ICM the platform of choice for every enterprise . " -- Finance technology company Blucora announced the addition of former Amazon executive Sanjay Baskaran , who will serve as the president of Blucora 's TaxAct division , which provides " affordable digital and downloadable tax software for individuals , business owners and tax professionals , " according to a Blucora release . Baskaran joins the company from his position as the general manager of North American credit cards at Amazon , before which he held leadership positions at financial firms Visa and HSBC . " I 'm thrilled to be joining TaxAct at such a pivotal time for the company . As the leading provider of affordable digital and downloadable tax software , TaxAct plays an important role in enabling its millions of customers to manage their financial lives , " Baskaran said in the release . -- Discuss.io , a startup providing video conferences for customer research purposes , announced the addition of Ben Macfarlane as VP of engineering . Prior to joining Discuss.io , Macfarlane served as VP of Engineering at Avalara , a Seattle startup offering tech based legal services . In his new role , Macfarlane will oversee all of Discuss.io 's technology and manage both the company 's core engineering team in its Fremont headquarters and other engineers distributed around the globe . " I 'm excited by the prospect of scaling the platform and the customer experience to complement Discuss.io 's fast pace of growth . It 's great to join a business with a validated product , strong revenue growth , segment leadership and a large untapped market , " Macfarlane told GeekWire in an email .