Nvidia has come across more than 1,300 AI startups in its Inception program , but the graphics and AI chip maker believes that there are n't enough artificial intelligence startups out there . Jeff Herbst , vice president of business development , said that Nvidia wants to partner with venture capitalists to fund even more AI startups that will build out the necessary parts of the ecosystem for AI , which is expected to become a huge part of the technology landscape going forward . He said the doors are open to partnering because there are so many more startups than Nvidia can help or finance on its own . Nvidia held a lunch on Thursday at its GPU Technology Conference to enlist dozens of venture capitalists in its crusade to change the world through artificial intelligence . Five startups made presentations to the VCs during the lunch , and Herbst spoke with Jim McHugh , general manager of Nvidia 's deep learning group , about the trends that will create opportunities for AI startups in the future . Above : Jeff Herbst of Nvidia " Every meaningful startup is using a GPU in some form now , " Herbst said . " Every relevant AI company comes through us . We are at the center of the revolution . We can be a great source of deal flow " for venture capitalists . Nvidia also launched its Tesla V100 AI processors today , which has 21 billion transistors and is about three times as powerful as the chip that Nvidia launched a year ago . McHugh said that it 's amazing to see a chip platform move so fast and stay ahead of Moore 's Law , the prediction that chip performance will double every couple of years as the number of transistors double every couple of years . But he thinks that startups in particular will benefit from the Nvidia DGX Station , which essentially lets startups get started on AI processing right away . Nvidia is a strategic investor , and it has invested in about 15 of the 1,300 startups in its Inception program . But there are more AI startups than Nvidia can invest in , and it wants to keep investing in companies that find a new way to use Nvidia 's GPUs . Jay Eum , managing director at Translink Capital , said he thought the idea of partnering with strategic investors was a good one because they can open so many doors for startups . During the session , VCs heard presentations from five AI startups : Datalogue ( automating data preparation ) , Drive.ai ( building the brain of self - driving cars ) , Fastdata.io ( using GPUs to accelerate streaming data ) , MapD ( accelerating SQL database processing with GPUs ) , and SoundHound ( a leader in voice - enabled AI ) . MapD recently closed a $ 25 million round led by NEA , and it has open - sourced its platform . Herbst said that Nvidia has three more investments in the pipeline . Nvidia plans to have more GPU Ventures events in the future . " We are enabling the software ecosystem around our platform , " Herbst said . " It 's a platform focus . Do n't think of us as guys in Cupertino , Santa Clara , and San Diego . We are completely different . We are financial investors , but we are primarily strategic investors . "