Columbus , Detroit , Cincinnati , Chicago , Cleveland -- startup hot spots like these are popping up across the nation as innovation and entrepreneurship are on the rise . However , while momentum is building in the Midwest , several misguided business regulations are stunting the startup community 's full potential . After much discussion with fellow VentureOhio board members , including Mark Kvamme of Drive Capital and the leaders at the NVCA , we 've identified four key regulations in particular that are throttling growth : the Volcker Rule , Qualified Small Business Stock Rules , Section 382 , and the Registered Investment Advisor Rules . Since Congress and the Trump administration are prioritizing regulatory structure , and tax reform is the premier economic policy issue under consideration in Washington . The startup community currently has a unique opportunity to make its voice heard and influence policymakers as they deliberate future regulations . The time is right to enact changes that can boost the entrepreneurial ecosystem to greater heights and encourage economic growth . Sparked by the financial crisis of 2007 - 2010 , the Volcker Rule was created to prevent banks from taking unnecessary chances with your money . The rule is meant to protect financial stability by prohibiting risky speculative investments -- sounds good , right ? Though beneficial on the surface , the rule was written in an overly broad fashion and ended up preventing banks from investing in venture capital funds . When the rule went into effect in 2015 , banks stopped supporting venture capital funds , and some even went so far as to sell their interests on the secondary market in order to comply with the rule immediately . Venture capital funds are n't inherently risky and they 're incredibly important to economic growth and opportunity . By preventing banks from investing in venture capital funds , the rule removed a key source of investment for a number of vital regional funds , which in turn decreased the amount of capital flowing toward innovative entrepreneurs and stunted startup growth . If we can encourage a narrower interpretation of the Volcker Rule and allow banks to invest in venture capital , we can reverse the effects and see an economic boost overall . Drive American job creation , innovation , and long - term economic competitiveness -- that was the goal of the QSBS . The idea was to award a generous tax benefit to investors who provided long - term capital investment to innovative small businesses . It 's no wonder it passed with strong bipartisan support . Unfortunately , in a well - intentioned effort to prevent abuse of the program , Congress and the IRS created a labyrinth of strict and complex rules on what counts as a qualifying small business for investment . To demonstrate that a particular small business qualifies the investor for the benefit , the investor must adhere to a compliance process that can actually take a toll on the resources of even a Fortune 500 company . This creates hesitancy to invest and undermines the potential of the provision . If investors could have a better understanding of when their investment is eligible for the benefit , QSBS could be one of the most powerful federal policies for encouraging entrepreneurial capital formation in emerging startup regions . By reducing the complexity of the rules defining a qualified small business , the government could unleash the full potential of the QSBS . Written in mid-1980s , the loss limitation rules in Section 382 of the tax code are intended to prevent loss trafficking , or the strategy of companies acquiring failing businesses with enormous losses on their books for the sole purpose of using the tax losses to offset other unrelated income . Though intended to prevent large companies from abusing the tax system , the rules often impact startups . Startups often accumulate net operating losses ( NOLs ) when using investment capital to build a company . These NOLs can then be used during a future tax reporting period to recover past tax payments . Due to these accumulated NOLs , startups will often trip the Section 382 rules when they undergo a merger or acquisition . This causes them to lose value because their NOLs and research and experimentation ( R&D ) tax deduction credits are suddenly limited and a penalty on R&D expenditures is imposed . This plays out to be a tax penalty for investment in innovation and entrepreneurship , negating the effects of Section 174 which encourages R&D through an R&D credit system . It 's time to reform this rule that has become a burdensome tax regulation for startups . These rules require a number of private funds to register with the SEC and undergo a substantial amount of compliance cost to continue functioning . These costs can be six , or even seven , figures annually . Because of the size of the burden , Congress wisely directed the SEC to exempt venture capital funds from this regulatory requirement , but it let the SEC define what constitutes a VC fund . The SEC took an excessively narrow view of the definition , and as a result , a number of venture capital firms have been subjected to this significant regulatory burden . Most affected have been growth equity funds , or later stage venture capital funds that often provide the capital for hiring and scaling for emerging companies . To allow the necessary access to capital for proven startups on the verge of scaling , the government should revisit the RIA definition in order to limit the regulatory and compliance burden on the entrepreneurial ecosystem . Rich Langdale is a cofounder and managing partner at NCT Ventures and the President and Capital Committee Chair of VentureOhio . Before cofounding the Columbus - based VC firm , he was founder , CEO , and Chairman of Digital Storage , Inc. and SubmitOrder.com   Ray Leach is the founding CEO of JumpStart Inc. a Cleveland , Ohio - based non - profit venture development organization . He currently serves as the Chair of the National Venture Capital Association 's ( NVCA ) Alumni Council and is a founding member of the NVCA 's Diversity Task Force . He also serves on the board of VentureOhio , Invent Now , and the Global Center for Health Innovation .