Social Native has created a marketplace for connecting brands with content creators who can create authentic social media assets that promote those brands . And that , in turn , has enabled Social Native to raise $ 8 million from investors , including SoftBank Capital . The Los Angeles startup has positioned itself for the era known as the " creator economy , " a term coined by futurist Paul Saffo to describe our shift from consumers of content to creators of content . Social Native works with top brands to find them low - cost and authentic content . In this age of social media , brands haven't been able to keep up with the voracious demand for social media assets , such as videos or pictures , on all of the big social sites . So the company enlists people who create an enormous number of assets : the fans . Those fans currently do n't get paid for their authentic expressions of enthusiasm for a brand , and brands can select the kind of content they want , such as fans interacting with a new product . Social Native uses its algorithms to identify creators , and then invites them to create content for the brand . Creators are always paid for the content they create , and this content is always created on demand , not found and surfaced for the brand . The brands pay Social Native for the assets , and Social Native shares that money with the content creators who express their love for the products . By contrast , an ad agency might charge $ 100 million for 100 campaigns . But content creators , who were previously sharing for free , could be far less expensive , and their content could be a lot more effective because it 's so authentic . Social Native said it received extensive interest from investors after its early success creating content for brands like Polaroid , Walgreens , and General Motors . " We 're pleased to see continued and growing interest in our technology across the globe , " said Social Native CEO David Shadpour , in a statement . " Brand 's are faced with the challenge of creating high volumes of personalized content to deliver relevant customer experiences , and prior to Social Native , this was a seemingly impossible task . It 's exciting to see the impact Social Native is having on the digital marketing landscape and the interest not just from brands , but also the investor community . " The new funding will enable Social Native to double down on its investment in the Content Optimization Engine . It will also further the company 's mission of using technology to reimagine the creative industry while investing in sales and marketing to continue claiming market share . " Brands are trying to keep up with the demand to create relevant customer experiences for all marketing channels , " said Jordan Levy , general partner at SoftBank Capital NY , in a statement . " This demand for personalized content has created a huge market opportunity for Social Native . They have the team , technology , and vision needed to transform the industry . And now [ they have ] the results . The company is producing astounding metrics for brands by automating the traditionally manual process of content creation . " Two industry veterans who invested in Social Native later joined the executive team full time . One is Jeff Ragovin , chief growth officer at Social Native , who cofounded Buddy Media , which sold for $ 745 million to Salesforce . The other , Eytan Elbaz , chief strategy officer at Social Native , is famed for cocreating AdSense , which was bought by Google for $ 104 million . " Social Native 's technology is unparalleled in content marketing , " said Jeff Ragovin , in a statement . " Not only have we completely automated the creative development process , but we 're building technology that will create a fundamental shift in how brands think about content creation . "