DeepMind cofounder Mustafa Suleyman . Google DeepMindThe capitalist model embraced by countries around the world is failing to serve humanity in many areas . That was the message of DeepMind cofounder Mustafa Suleyman this week -- the highly educated entrepreneur who sold his artificial intelligence ( AI ) startup to Google for PS400 million in 2014 . " We believe today that in some sense , capitalism in many ways has delivered so much for us over the last couple of centuries , " said Suleyman at a Google ZeitgeistMinds event in London on Tuesday . " We 've delivered so much progress . No other construct or idea has been able to distribute benefits so broadly and so rapidly . " And yet in many areas , capitalism is currently failing us , " he said . " We actually need a new kind of set of incentives to tackle some of most pressing and urgent social problems and we need a new kind of tool , a new kind of intelligence , that is distributed , that is scaled , that is accessible , to try and make sense of some of the complexity that is overwhelming us . " Drought in Syria . Khaled al - Hariri / Reuters Addressing the audience of global thinkers and leaders , Suleyman went on to say that humans are struggling to grapple with the complexity of the systems that we have created , adding that our current financial systems " need to serve the interests of the many and not just the few " . Suleyman , the son of a Syrian - born taxi - driver father and English nurse , supported his argument by making a number of points . " 800 million people do n't have access to clean water today and that 's going to more than double over the next decade , " said Suleyman . A lack of food is another big issue . Suleyman said 800 million people are malnourished " yet almost a third of the food that we produce goes to waste each year . " He added : " It would take 3.1 planets worth of resources if all of us across the world were to consume at the rate we do in the UK . How is that sustainable ? What does that say about the mechanisms and the incentives that we 've created and evolved over the last thousands of years of our species ? " The issues of clean water and food availability are only going to intensify as a result of global warming , Suleyman said , adding that the concentration of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere is higher than ever . " We have ticking time bombs that our current systems are struggling to address , " he said . On wealth equality , Suleyman ( who is a multimillionaire himself ) said that he 'd like to see capital spread more evenly around the world . " The incomes of the top 1% , most of us [ at the Google event ] , have risen 300% over the last 30 years , while the bottom 2/3 have seen their incomes stagnate or fall . How can we change that to ensure benefits are distributed as widely and as fairly as possible ? " Inside a Google data centre . Google Suleyman believes that AI , and more specifically the AI being created by DeepMind , can play a crucial role in making the world a better place for everyone . The company 's most famous algorithm to date is AlphaGo -- an AI agent that taught itself how to play , and master , the Chinese board game Go . But DeepMind is now looking to apply similar algorithms to real world problems . Last July , Google announced that it has been using a DeepMind - built AI system to control certain parts of its power - hungry data centres over the last few months as it looks to make its vast server farms more environmentally friendly . This week , Suleyman said the DeepMind technology has now been deployed in all of Google 's data centres , as he said it would be . DeepMind is now in talks with the National Grid in the UK about a potential partnership that could help the entire nation to reduce its carbon footprint . Elsewhere , DeepMind 's AI is also being used to help medical experts in the NHS to diagnose patients and treat them accordingly . The company has developed an app called " Streams " which is able to detect AKI ( acute kidney injury ) and other conditions . It is also using its software to help clinicians spot head and neck cancer , and early signs of eye conditions that human eye care experts might miss . The company 's work with the NHS gives DeepMind access to large amounts of patient data and the collaboration has been criticised for not being transparent enough , with the first deal ( made with the Royal Free NHS Trust in North London ) coming under the most criticism . Get the latest Google stock price here .