A " pretty good " website is n't going to set your company apart . Your website is your greatest chance of communicating your branded message to an audience , and you need to recognize that it can be your biggest asset . But with customers getting more and more bored with the status quo , one good website is n't enough . You need to always be innovating . There 's a question I get asked a lot from friends and entrepreneurs , which is usually posed like this : " Your business is established , and you already have a pretty good website , why do you keep changing it ? " Here 's why we do it , and why we think you should too : A website should be the full digital representation of a company and its offerings . So , going through the process of creating a new website is the best opportunity for a company to analyze everything it 's doing . When you go through a redesign , you need to ask yourself a series of questions about the brand : As you can probably tell , none of these questions have to do with technical details . They 're business questions you need to have good answers for , and if you do n't , well , now 's the time to answer them . Every time you go through a website redesign , the answers to these questions either change or mature . This keeps you in check with the growth of your company and how it 's evolving . This allows you to communicate the most accurate depiction of ourselves to the outside world . Yes , predictability is comfortable . But it can also be extremely boring . Use your redesigns as an opportunity to break people out of their daily routine . Activities like fast - paced brainstorming sessions or full internal work days get people excited . It will also give your team an opportunity to show off what they can do , or figure out things they ca n't . We conduct these open sessions with a flat management approach . By giving everyone the same level of importance in the project , we get a more diversified outlook on our brand . Employees are often capable of doing more than what 's in their job description . Your website is a direct reflection of what you 're capable of . Having a tangible example of your creative and technical prowess will allow you to establish yourself in the early stages of your startup . If you do n't sell creative services , there are other ways you can improve your opportunities for sales through your site . From a general content perspective , you 'll get a clearer message of what it is you do and what makes you unique . You 'll constantly be providing your most up - to - date product or service offerings information and finding opportunities to highlight key initiatives your company has been a part of . Getting more specific with data is where you can really uncover new opportunities . Look into tools like Google Analytics , Lead Forensics and Hotjar to really understand who your audience is and how they behave . You 'll be able to discover more about the information they need at key points . A version of this article originally appeared on the author 's company blog . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .