The Sharing Hub , a coworking hub and community founded by four founders of sharing economy startups , has launched in Sydney 's Pyrmont to help foster the development of the sector . It comes as a report from Deloitte , commissioned by the NSW government , estimated that revenues of businesses in the state 's sharing - or collaborative , as the report puts it - economy grew to $ 2.6 billion in 2015 - 16 , up from $ 1.6 billion in 2014 - 15 . The number of people earning through " key " platforms in the sector also doubled in the year , reaching 92,400 . The founders of the Sharing Hub , Mike Rosenbaum , cofounder and CEO of Spacer ; Steve Orenstein , CEO of founder of Zoom2u ; cofounder and CEO of MadPaws , Alexis Soulopoulos ; and Will Davies , CEO of Car Next Door , first came together last year to share their experiences and learnings with each other . " We had a bunch of similar challenges . We informally met up , a year ago , every month to discuss our common challenges , and we found that very often the problems we were discussing were very specific to marketplaces , such as the chicken or the egg problem ; should we first recruit MadPaws sitters or MadPaws pet owners , Spacer hosts or Spacer customers ? " Soulopoulos said . " Before we knew it there were about 20 people doing these informal catch ups , and we were always moving from one place to the other so we thought , let 's formalise this and make it big . " The community has now grown to 28 startups , a number of which will now be housed at the Sharing Hub space . Here the focus will be on mentorship and encouraging collaboration with government . " We want to grow the sharing economy as a whole , and how we do that is not only by helping the startups grow but also aligning with government . I think this is a very new space for Australia 's startup ecosystem , yet it 's growing super rapidly , and in order to ensure that growth is great for the consumer and stays great for the consumer is to align with government , " Soulopoulos said . The NSW government has made efforts to embrace the sector over the last year ; after announcing it would be regulating ridesharing services in December 2015 , it released a position paper last year outlining a framework to regulate the wider sharing economy in the state , highlighting the " positive impact of the collaborative economy for consumer choice , employment , and productivity " . Soulopoulos said , " I think it 's important that we have the dialogue with government ; when they are making policies we 'd like them to get insights on what 's actually happening from us , and it seems they 're supportive of that , but what 's also important is , what data does the government have ? Stats are crucial to quantify the industry and show people that this is a really big space and it 's growing super fast . " According to the Deloitte report , financial services platforms saw the most growth , with revenue growing by 345 percent from 2014 - 15 to 2015 - 16 ; transportation and automotive services , led by Uber , grew by 242 percent , while goods and redistribution services such as eBay grew by 67 percent . Accommodation services have grown by 55 percent , led by Airbnb 's booming presence in Sydney , which is now the world 's fifth largest market for the business with 4,500 hosts ; the city was ranked 10th in 2015 . Sydney had 262,000 inbound guests in the year , representing growth of 106 percent year - on - year . With the potential of the sector significant , the Sharing Hub founders will also be working with the University of Sydney Business School to help educate students about sharing economy businesses , with plans to create a graduate program .