When Sergey Brin co - founded Google as a Stanford Ph.D. student , he never imagined that the company would become so wide - ranging and successful . He certainly never imagined that he 'd be onstage at the World Economic Forum , where founder Klaus Schwab would tell him that " the prime minister of quite an important country " recently called Alphabet ( Google 's parent company ) one of the four powers left in the world . Despite Alphabet 's global dominance , Brin modestly attributes much of his success to luck . He said he was in Silicon Valley , where multiple technological revolutions ( semiconductor , internet , mobile ) have occurred and where a culture of both experimentation and social responsibility prevails . " If I told you all of the dumb things I did , we 'd have to have a much longer session , " Brin said . " And the successes , they often are chance . " This serendipitous perspective also defines Brin 's view of humanity and business in the future , as he explained in a talk at the World Economic Forum earlier today . Brin began with a caveat about his ability to predict the next technological frontier . " You maybe should doubt my answers a little bit , " he told the audience . Brin then shared an anecdote : A few years ago , he underestimated and largely disregarded Google 's research into artificial intelligence , believing that the concept of " neural nets " had been proven infeasible back in the 1990s . Today , Google Brain , the company 's AI research division , touches nearly all of the company 's projects . Brin encourages experimentation and innovation , just as one of his professors did when he wanted to leave Stanford to launch Google . But his career has taught him that the future is impossible to predict . He is cautious in his forecasts . " The evolution of technology might be inherently chaotic , " he said . " We have a set of values and desires today that are probably pretty different than before the Industrial Revolution , and different still than before the Agrarian Revolution . And we might continue to evolve . " Brin noted that values and desires have shifted as jobs and work have changed , thanks to automation . Automation has given humans more time to think , reflect and pursue work that gives them a sense of purpose . As automation becomes more prevalent , Brin said jobs should retain this role . People should have the means to educate themselves for reasons other than to fulfill an economic need . " I guess I would hope that -- as some of the maybe more mundane tasks are alleviated through technology -- people find more and more creative and meaningful ways to spend their time , " he said . " People find profound meaning in their day - to - day jobs , and I think that 's an important thing for us to preserve . " He explained that today 's technology provides unprecedented opportunities for young people to pursue their interests -- but also a unique new challenge . " There are a lot of affordances that are such conveniences today that make it easy . But there 's also a global stage that makes it hard , " Brin said . " I would encourage young folks to take chances and pursue their dreams and try to silence out the voices that say , ' Actually , there are 1,000 startups trying to do self - riding bicycles . ' " Finally , Brin shared his own values as humanity hurtles toward an uncertain future . He emphasized that the objective of business must shift to meaningful , socially driven goals beyond moneymaking -- just as he believes that , despite automation , individuals must continue to have the means to pursue jobs that fulfill their passions . " You ca n't just think narrowly , ' Oh , this is your business , you 're just going to maximize earnings , it does n't matter what 's going on around you , " Brin said . " If you look at the laws and regulations and SEC rules , technically you 're meant to be purely profit seeking , and that 's not really a reasonable position to take . " Lydia Belanger is an associate editor at Entrepreneur.com . Her work has appeared in Inc. and Wired .