Venture capitalists will certainly remember the year 2015 as the " year of drone startups , " but the revolution in the ecosystem still has not reached its peak . As reported by WSJ , venture capitalists will continue to invest in drone - related pitches , especially after the last year 's introduction of federal rules governing the commercial use of drones . From $ 177 million in 2014 to $ 240 million in 2016 , the investments in drone startups over previous two years were quite remarkable . With the use of drones becoming mainstream in different sectors , the demand for specialized aircraft will continue to grow and keep drone startups in demand . These circumstances are apparently helping build up an entirely new economy , with the following sectors benefiting the most from the increased drone production . Thanks to technical innovation , reduced costs and more flexible regulations , drones are quickly entering its commercial use era . From insurance and utilities businesses , to oil and gas or waste management companies , drones are providing safer and more efficient ways to do business . Previously unreachable remote areas , dangerous sites or time - consuming endeavors are now becoming accessible and time - efficient as commercial drones are providing faster , safer and smarter ways to track and process data . Airware is leading the crowd with accessible drone solutions for telecom , utilities , oil and gas , landfill and waste management , construction and mining and insurance companies . Skycatch and Kespry have also closed new rounds in 2016 , announcing innovations in aerial mapping and enterprise inventory management , respectfully .     These three are perfect examples of the developments in the sector , beating the path to drone innovation in enterprise . Drones have introduced a major innovation in farming and agriculture by allowing for precise and easy monitoring , measuring and responding to changes in crops and fields . The way in which drones have revolutionized the field are reflected in real - time tracking and better quality imaging , which allows for smarter and faster decisions for farmers . The DJI Agras MG-1 has gone one step further to assist in the spraying process for plant protection and fertilization . Water resistant , corrosion- and dust - proof , DJI Agras is specifically designed for agricultural purposes , especially for spraying process since it can carry 10 kg of fluid and cover 10 acres ( 4 hectares ) in a single flight . The disruptive nature drone of technology has transformed mining and construction sectors to a great degree . With the aerial tech now used to view , measure and record data on stock piles , monitor wall movements in mines , inspect various infrastructure lines and perform mineral exploration , the mining sector has shown the fastest growth in drone adaptation . Similarly , construction site mapping and planning that used to take up a lot of time and was prone to mistakes , has now become a matter of minutes with drones ' ability to capture the data automatically . Among the startups specializing in drone technology for construction , Identified technologies combines hardware and software system to revolutionize the way we build . With its eeDaaSS model that includes pre - flight planning , camera and sensor settings , post - flight analysis and quality control , in addition to reporting and analytics , the company opens a set of new opportunities for companies in the sector . With STEM skills growing in demand both in schools and at workplace , Makeblock Airblock has offered a truly unique way to help students develop these skills . Makeblock Airblock a modular and programmable drone intended for the education sector , whose core idea is to help enhance students ' STEM skills at an early age . The use of drones like this one represent the next big tech trend in classrooms , and are expected to help awaken children 's passion for active exploration of technology . Combined with a series of toy - grade drones made specifically for kids , the specialized models for education can encourage the youngest to get involved with the latest tech inventions .    Drone technology has quickly surpassed its initial aerial photography and video application and has tapped even into the medicine sector , making it an important factor in saving lives of millions . A great number of startups has emerged to offer solutions for medical equipment and supply delivery via drone technology , which has made an important difference for healthcare , medical research and even human rights organizations . We have witnessed the launching of Zipline 's , ( Californian startup ) solution to deliver medical supplies to inaccessible regions in Rwanda . Researchers at the The Sheffield Centre for Robotics are testing the ability of microdrones to potentially replace invasive surgery by releasing chemotherapy only on the regions affected by the cancer . Apparently , drones are changing the face of traditional industries faster than many other tech trends we have seen over the last several years . With business analysts predicting a continued growth of the economy , the five sectors above are a safe focus for up - and - coming drone manufacturers .