startup pitches . Company : Swyfft . Headquarters : Mobile , Alabama . Founding Team : Sean Maher . Why we like it : Out of all the products you could be browsing for on the internet , homeowner 's insurance is n't exactly the most sexy now is it . In fact , it 's as unsexy as you can possibly get . But for those fortunate enough to actually own a home , it is a necessity .   Swyfft takes the pain out of this process by providing lucky homeowners with a quote in seconds . Whereas other online based insurance platforms make you fill out endless , mind - numbing forms , prolonging the pain , all you need to do with Swyfft is type in your address and voila , you 'll have yourself a quote for your big , shiny house , you lucky bastard . Founded in 2014 , Swyfft propels home insurance into the twenty - first century . In a modern day David and Goliath , Swyfft is going up against the giants of the insurance world - think GEICO , Esurance , and Progressive . In this well - established market , the intelligent home insurance enterprise is disrupting the industry by using unique analytics , big data and artificial intelligence ( AI ) to save its customers time and money . Furthermore , customers receive an improved online user experience without sacrificing the underwriting integrity provided by traditional insurance firms . Swyfft 's patented Big Data technology uses artificial intelligence ( AI ) to turn analytical insights into big savings for consumers , all the while ensuring quality home protection . Swyfft 's homeowners insurance covers the full cost of replacing your home , with no deduction for depreciation and no dollar limit . What 's more , in addition to covering your home , Swyfft homeowners insurance policy provides important extra coverages including personal property , living expenses , personal liability and medical expenses .   The platform 's web app is simple to use and easily customizable . Users simply enter their home address , with no personal information . Swyfft 's multi - patented AI - driven technology sorts through data points - including , fires , hail , and tornados - to create policies that save an estimated 50% of customers money . Policies can then be quoted , adjusted , bound , issued and emailed to the customer in less than a minute , directly from a phone , tablet or laptop . Now , that 's something that we would write home about or even buy a house for , if we ever had the money .