Digital All Stars is a series of articles which aims to celebrate the best of South African digital . The articles , which will appear on Memeburn and Ventureburn , recognise and celebrate South Africa 's best digital entrepreneurs , business people , advertisers , and media professionals among others . The All Stars listed in the articles are compiled using a combination of our editorial team 's own knowledge , that of experts in the fields covered by each article , as well as public vote . Education is a problem in South Africa , whether it be under - funded schools , a lack of teachers , or collapsing buildings . There are private organisations trying to tackle these problems and make education ' easier ' for SA learners . In this article , we feature some of the best SA startups who are tackling education through technology -- whether they 're gaining traction , use algorithms , make parents ' lives easier , or have a range of courses available . The names are featured alphabetically by startup .   This edtech startup wants to change the way education is done by using a combination of story - telling and gamification for each of its courses . It was launched at the 2015 Web Summit in Dublin , and is founded by the ex - head of Innovation for Ogilvy & Mather in Africa , Chris Rawlinson . Some of its courses include Social Media and Behavioural Economics , with the likes of How to Start a Start Up and The Internet of Things coming soon . Clock Education looks to solve the education crisis through adaptive technology that enables personalised and self - paced learning . It creates these systems for a range of institutions across all sectors . The company is founded by CEO Kolawole Olajide , who is an Anzisha fellow , the winner of a R500 000 SAB innovation prize , and featured in the 2015 Mail & Guardian 200 Young South Africans list .   Founded in Cape Town in 2013 by Tabitha Bailey , this SaaS edtech startup uses adaptive technology to assess the proficiency levels of students with the correct content for publishers and content creators . It also struck a deal with startup incubator Playlogix in order to build the software . In 2013 , the startup took the top prize at the Telkom Open Innovation Mega Challenge . In 2014 , Daptio was named one of Africa 's top 10 most innovative companies by Fast Company , a runner - up in the Get in the Ring 2014 challenge , and participated in the Edupreneurship Programme . Growing out of publishing house Cover2Cover Books , FunDza Literacy Trust is a non - profit literacy trust with an aim of making reading accessible and appealing to the youth of South Africa . In its early days , the service would serve specifically - commissioned teen fiction using the Mxit portal . It was part of Media24 's ' Giving You Space to Grow ' programme , a finalist in The Tech Awards and the 2014 WISE awards , and part of Project Isizwe .   Easily the poster child for edtech in SA , GetSmarter is based out of Cape Town and London . It was founded in 2008 by brothers Sam and Rob Paddock with its first course being in Wine Evaluation . GetSmarter 's courses are reviewed annually by the likes of Wits , Harvard , UCT , and Goldsmiths to make sure the content is always current . In 2015 , it partnered with CiTi to offer bursaries to entrepreneurial students , and according to the website has over 40 000 life - long learners , with their goal to reach one million by 2030 . This startup is a hybrid of fintech and edtech in the sector , with its first test having been run in November last year . The financial app allows parents to pay small amounts to the school and teachers , such as for civvies days . The app is also backed by Nedbank , who has just concluded a partnership with it .   Describing itself as a social enterprise , Paper Video uses QR codes on previous exam papers . When students scan the QR code , they 're presented with a video helping them on the topic . It currently offers videos on accounting , life sciences , mathematics , natural sciences , physical sciences , and unimaths , across grades eight to 12 and post matric , depending on the subject . One of its latest innovations is the Paper Video hub , which allows learners to stream 700 hours of help videos without the need of an internet connection . Paper Video is also one of the first startups to be part of the EdTech Open Innovation Cluster in Africa . Rethink Education is a mobile maths and science platform that allows learners to study anywhere , anytime . It was founded by Douglas Hoernle , who was inspired by Khan Academy . The startup has partnered with quite a few high - profile partners , such as Naspers , Allan Gray , Microsoft , and even Mxit before it shut down .   A Cape Town - based 2D animation and game development studio , Sea Monster is one of the first edtech participants in the EdTech Open Innovation Cluster . According to CEO Glenn Gillis , two of the company 's products , PnP 's Super Animal AR game and Old Mutual 's Moneyversity , have yielded positive results in the edtech space . Sea Monster was one of five startups chosen to participate in the Cocreate2Accelerate programme , was one of Grindstone 's 13 tech startups of 2015 , received R6.5-million from the Western Cape government , and was featured on 702/Cape Talk Radio 's Nedbank Business Accelerator programme . Taking more of a specific approach than other edtech companies on this list , SeeBox focuses on electronic engineering . More specifically , the startup has a game console that teaches kids about the subject through practical use . SeeBox won the education category at the African Entrepreneurship Awards and delivered its first units to Manenberg High School in September last year .   Siyavula 's aim is to produce open - source Maths and Physical Science textbooks for high school students . Initially , the company created open - source maths and physical science textbooks , which were handed over to the South African Department of Basic Education for free . The company would go on to create a cognitive learning engine that identifies the relevant needs of students and adapts its questions to the perfect difficulty for the student . The engine pushes learners at the appropriate difficulty level to get a score of at least 70% in their exercises . This startup concentrates on content distribution and mobile publishing with over 76 000 free ebooks from over 250 publishers . It was launched in 2011 and spawned out of digital strategy and technology partner Realm Digital . Having launched in 2011 , the company expanded to Kenya , Nigeria , Zimbabwe , the US , and the UK . In 2013 , Snapplify announced a partnership with global digital and epublishing service provider SPi Global . In June of 2014 , the startup announced its plans for an ebook distribution platform for SA schools , with further expansion into rural areas with SnappBox in October . In 2014 , Snapplify won the Tech Innovation prize at the FutureBook Awards , having also received an undisclosed investment from Angelhub Ventures in 2015 . While these are n't startups per se , at Ventureburn we still think they are doing interesting things in the edtech sector . This Digital All Stars article has been put together with the help of Graham van der Made ( editor , Ventureburn ) , Matthew Alexander ( junior writer , Ventureburn ) , Hadlee Simons ( editor , Memeburn ) , Sarah Rice , Guillaume De Smedt ( global community director , Startup Grind ) , Camilla Swart ( ecosystem manager , Rise Africa ) , Alexandra Fraser ( co - vice chairperson , Silicon Cape ) , Marcello Schermer ( managing director , Seedstars World ) , Lianne du Toit ( management consultant ) , Bertil van Vugt ( business development lead , VC4Africa ) , and public submissions . * If you feel there is a startup we missed then please email editor@memeburn.com . All entries will be taken into consideration by our panel of judges . Also check out TEACHA ! - an online marketplace for South African teachers . - http://www.teachingresources.co.za