In the digital world , standards and practices are always on the move . Whether it 's marketing tactics , means of funding , or hiring solutions , the only constant in business is change . With these kind of perpetually shifting trends , it can be hard to nail down a strategy for your business . Fortunately , when it comes to design , someone has done the legwork for you to keep you in the loop . That 's right , according to CoastCreative , there are eight key design trends that can make or break your website , your app , your social media reputation , or your entire startup . While there are a number of important changing trends to keep in mind , the list specifies that there are some tried and true standards and practices that should pass the test of time . " Although there are principles of design that are universal and timeless , inevitably there are also trends that change yearly as the practice evolves , " reads the study . " Some of these trends may take hold and become part of the timeless principles , while others will fade away . " Whether it 's font , color , shapes , or overall creativity , these trends will keep you abreast of the design world around you . You 'll know how bold your header needs to appear , what color your logo should be , and even whether or not pastel colors work outside of the Easter holiday . With new and improved design tech being released on what seems like a daily basis , staying on top of the shifting trends is vital to the survival of a startup . This proves even more important when you realize that the marketing world is transitioning to an almost entirely visual experience , putting even more pressure on the design profession as a whole . So if you want to stay competitive , these trends are going to be your first step towards success . If you 're interested in learning more about these shifting design trends , take a look at the infographic below to get a better idea of what you 're working with :   Read more about changing trends in 2017 here at Tech . Co