While being the senior writer at Tech . Co is a dream come true , my passion for stand up comedy has been years in the making . In 2009 , I stepped in front of a crowd of approximately 250 people and fumbled through a set that I had been repeating in my head for no less than two weeks . I paused at all the wrong times , I mumbled through punchlines , and I made fun of the people hosting the event . And by the end of my seven minutes on stage , I knew I would be doing this for the rest of my life .   Now , eight years later , I run a showcase in Chicago , I 've performed in notable comedy clubs around the country , and I no longer get noticeable pit stains before going on stage . But this process took a lot of practice , too many late nights , and an absurd amount of failure . Sound like anything you might be familiar with ? That 's right , entrepreneurship . While they live in incredibly different worlds , entrepreneurs and stand up comedians have a lot more in common than they 're likely willing to admit . Between the sweatshirt and flip - flops fashion sense and the beer and Doritos diets , these two groups of people shoot for the top , fail often , and compete with the best of the best . Practice makes perfect . It 's the adage of nearly every performer , founder , and competitive eater in the entire world . And while everyone understands that success comes from actually engaging in your desired field , comedians and entrepreneurs are forced to learn by doing , rather than practicing . And tragically , " doing " comes with an unpopular by - product when you 're just starting out : failure . You ca n't get feedback about new jokes by doing them in front of a mirror . Likewise , running a pretend startup to " see how things turn out " yields little to no knowledge about how the business world actually functions . In both cases , you need to get your feet wet with real life experience to have any chance of succeeding in the future . Not only are entrepreneurs and comedians forced to endure failure on a regular basis , but they actually benefit more than any other profession from doing so . The more you fail , the more you learn , and in entrepreneurship and comedy , there is more than enough failure to go around . " Go down with the ship , do whatever you can , and learn with it . Just make your sets not as long and boring and un - watchable as Titanic , " said Tommy McNamara , sports headline contributor for The Onion . Every field has varying levels of competition . Whether you 're a salesperson or a data scientist , there 's always going to be that one person that wants to make you look bad to make it to the top . However , when it comes to comedians and entrepreneurs , your competition is n't some schmuck with a customized bobblehead and a three - shirt rotation that says stuff like " I got a bad case of the Tuesdays ! " You 're competing with some of the most prolific people in the world . Whether it 's Elon Musk or Hannibal Buress , comedy and entrepreneurship are both defined by an unprecedentedly skilled talent pool that is more than intimidating ; it 's down right terrifying . To make matters worse , there is a notable lack of viable metrics for measuring early - stage success in these fields . This can lead to a bevy of awkward encounters with comedians and entrepreneurs that are far above , or far below , your experience level at pitch competitions , local showcases , and any other event that pits these two innovators against their respective peers . While comedy and entrepreneurship are rife with sensational failure and ample competition , the saving grace of these strenuous professions is quite simple : when you succeed , you succeed spectacularly . Whether it 's becoming the next Uber or landing a special on Comedy Central , the top of the mountain in these fields can only be described as awesome ; the kind of awesome that comes with global adoration , universal recognition , and more free stuff than you could ever know what to do with . While this level of success makes a fall from grace that much more painful , it does n't matter . Even a brief stint in the spotlight is enough to validate a lifetime of botched elevator pitches , unbearable open mics , and people laughing at you , rather than with you . Plus , you finally get to tell your family and friends to shut up when they ask , " So when are you going to be on Saturday Night Live / Shark Tank ? " There is no middle ground with comedy or entrepreneurship . These fields are defined by the extreme , and they are not for the faint of heart . To be a comedian or an entrepreneur , you have to be stupid . Stupid enough to want to fail . Stupid enough to compete with some of the most impressive people in the world . And stupid enough to think you can succeed in the face of insurmountable odds . So be stupid . If only because the journey is a lot of fun . Photo : Sarah Elizabeth Larson Photography