A privacy scandal shook the tech industry last week : Unroll Me - a popular free service to quickly unsubscribe from newsletters - was allegedly selling data to third parties . The free service was exploiting user - granted email access to scrape inboxes for the sole purpose of data mining and reselling value . For example , the service would check for Lyft receipts to sell targeted data to Uber . The ordeal created a massive backlash towards Unroll Me but also raised an obvious question : Is this common practice ? Perri Chase , a cofounder of Unroll Me who is no longer affiliated with the service , wrote a lengthy blogpost on Tuesday defending the current CEO . She claims that because the service is free , it HAD to sell data to make money . She insists it 's common practice for providers of free services like Gmail and Facebook . The analogy between Unroll Me and Google or Facebook is audacious . Not to say haughty . Facebook and Google are making billions selling ads to targeted audiences . But they do n't sell user data . Yes , they collect information about users gathered through emails , social networking habits , and location , and use that to attract advertisers , but the data stays in - house . Unroll Me and its mother company , Slice , on the other hand , were selling raw data to third parties . Large , seemingly data - hungry corporations have been scrutinized for years on the use of collected data . They disclose terms of services several times during the onboarding process , offer privacy settings , and ultimately as you are using the service you receive periodic updates on their policy . Their business model is selling ads , not selling data . Users gave Unroll Me their email credentials to perform a specific task -- remove unwanted email subscriptions . Instead these credentials were exploited to mine and sell users ' private data . One user posted on an image on Twitter of disclosures made by Unroll Me during the onboarding process .   It clearly says " We will never touch your personal stuff " , a claim which seems to be an outright lie . Unroll Me bills itself as a cool , helpful service but functions as invasive spyware . That is neither an industry standard , nor flagrantly misleading users about the privacy of their personal information . Storing data , exploiting data , selling raw data to third parties is the last thing you expect given the statement provided in Unroll Me 's onboarding . Jojo Hedaya , current CEO of Unroll Me , says he needs to do a better job on their privacy policy . He should n't wait too long to do it . A class action lawsuit against Slice was filed on Wednesday in the Northern California District Court for failing to adequately disclose how the service allegedly harvests valuable data from its users ' accounts . The lawsuit accuses Unroll Me and Slice of violating the Electronic Communications Privacy Act and the Stored Communications Act due to a lack of disclosure during the signup process . As we all know in this industry , it 's very hard , if not impossible , to recover from such a fiasco . Regardless of the legal verdict , the company has already been found guilty in the eyes of the public . I ca n't see any good coming from this lawsuit . Perri alleges that Unroll Me is n't doing worse than other providers of free services . I personally refute that line of defense . " Others " wo n't make your problem go away . " Others " did n't get caught cheating , and those who did are no longer operating . Simple fact of life . Trust is earned in drops and lost in buckets . Although I admire Perri 's courage to stand by the company she founded , I ca n't accept the explanation that users are fools for not reading the fine print . We do n't read fine print . We read the large print . " We will never touch your personal stuff " is the one sentence we all read , and it was placed in front of our eyes right above the larger button [ ACCEPT ] for a reason . Can one bad apple spoil the whole bunch ? No . Unroll Me 's privacy faux pas does not represent an industry standard . Consumers are n't likely to analyze a company 's potential pricing models when signing up for a free service , nor would we want them to . It 's a sad day when users have to assume that if a service is free , they can expect their personal information is being mined , stored , and auctioned off the the highest bidder . Perri makes a case that the companies who purchase personal data without regard to its source are at fault . She expressly names Uber for its willingness to pay for any information relating to its competition . Unroll Me and its parent company 's blatant blame shifting makes the ordeal doubly distasteful . As service providers , it 's increasingly important to align our actions with strong ethics . And as a user , I 'm going to be more choosy about what services I allow to access my personal information . Florian Seroussi is cofounder and CEO of email intelligence software startup OMC . Prior to OMC , he cofounded Labotec and Global Roaming .