Food and beverage startups are transforming our lifestyles , from ingredients being delivered to our doorsteps , to three - step juice cleanses . Each startup has a unique brand - a distinctive product , ingredient , or business model - which preserves the company 's competitive edge and customer expectations . But what if the startup juice company 's Flavor Developer wants to leave for a job with Tropicana(r ) ? Or what if the juice company partners with an energy drink company to create a healthy buzz , only for their relationship to sour after disclosing key operational details ? With the help of " restrictive covenants , " your company can restrict its employee 's post - employment competitive activities and protect its sensitive information . Restrictive covenants are contracts that allow employers to shield their protectable interests , so employers commonly rely on restrictive covenants like non - compete or non - solicitation agreements to stay competitive amidst transitory employees and a globalized economy . A non - compete agreement stops a former employee from competing with his prior employer within a proscribed location and period of time , while a non - solicitation agreement prevents a departing employee from soliciting customers or other employees to move to a competing entity . Restrictive covenants also protect startup companies or companies entering into collaborative relationships from losing customers or sensitive information .   Not all employees need to sign restrictive covenants . Lower - level employees do not typically have access to marketable relationships or confidential information , so they probably do not need to sign a restrictive covenant . As an example , Jimmy John 's made news for requiring their low - wage employees to sign 2-year non - competes . Last year , the sandwich chain announced it would no longer include these provisions in their employment contracts after an investigation by the New York attorney general 's office . The following are the types of employees a company may want to sign a restrictive covenant : corporate management employees who direct the business and know high - level information , employees with access to confidential information regarding business operations , product development or engineering employees and employees who develop key customer relationships - particularly with large organizations or buyers . If you 're planning to draft restrictive covenants for your food and beverage business , here are three special ingredients to consider that can help protect your company . To implement a restrictive covenant , a company must have a legitimate business interest . A legitimate business interest also guides the specific scope of restricted activity . In the food and beverage industry , these interests are usually tied to confidential information , specific products , the potential for unfair competition , and customer goodwill . When drafting a restrictive covenant , a company must consider its most valuable assets - such as a particular product or ingredient , the customer - base , or a unique business structure - and determine the extent to which those assets need to be protected . When drafting a restrictive covenant 's geographic restriction , employers should consider the company 's geographic reach and the employee 's specific role and location . Typically , an employee responsible for a specific geographic region should not be restricted from competing in other regions . For nationwide companies in the food and beverage industry , it 's common to find restrictive covenants without geographic limitations , particularly if both the employer and the employee operate throughout or beyond the United States . Courts may uphold restrictive covenants without a geographic scope , but companies should purposely omit any mention of a geographic limitation or explicitly write that there is no geographic limitation as opposed to leaving the term blank . To set a restrictive covenant 's duration , companies should consider the legitimate interests they want to protect and determine how long those interests hold value . Courts have upheld restrictive covenant time limitations of one to three years for companies in the food and beverage industry , a trend consistent with other industries . A restrictive covenant involving the sale of a business may involve a longer restriction . The sale of a food or beverage business will often require the sellers to agree to longer non - competes , potentially up to five years . While these three ingredients just skim the surface about what to consider when drafting restrictive covenant agreements , you still need to seek the assistance of legal counsel to ensure the specific needs of your company are addresses and your assets protected . Read more about how to protect your company here at Tech . Co . This article is not intended as legal advice . Please consult legal counsel to discuss your company 's needs and what type of restrictive covenant may work best for your company . The author wishes to thank and attribute Alexandra Buckingham , a summer associate and law student from Drexel University School of Law for assistance in drafting this article . This article was brought to you by Saul Ewing LLP , a full service law firm serving clients throughout the United States and internationally .