Following years of stubbornly high unemployment in France , the country 's entrepreneurs believe they have a solution : reinvent the way people are hired . While it seems like there are a million ways to find a job or recruit employees online these days , investors appear surprisingly bullish about these newbies . So much so that three different French human resource - related startups announced new rounds of venture capital this week . Mostly likely , it 's a coincidence . Still , it 's a sign that entrepreneurs believe technology can help bring down the country 's 9.3 percent unemployment rate . That 's down from 10.1 percent a couple of years ago , but high enough that many French still remain anxious about their future , and a growing number are deciding to look for economic opportunities abroad . In trying to address the employment problem in France , however , these companies believe they can build businesses that cross borders to become international successes . On Monday , EasyRECrue announced it had raised $ 8.9 million . Launched in 2013 , the company is building a video interviewing platform aimed at helping recruiters weed through large pools of prospective candidates . Investors include Elaia Partners and BPIFrance . On Tuesday , JobTeaser , a job site for university students and young adults , landed $ 16.7 million from Alven Capital , Idinvest Partners , and Korelya Capital . This is a particularly attractive market in France because the official Youth Unemployment Rate ( for people 25 years old and younger ) is 23.70 percent , down from its recent peak of 25.6 percent in November 2012 but above its historic average of 20.15 percent . Finally , on Wednesday Talent.io said it had raised $ 8.9 million from Ventech and Alven Capital . The company had raised $ 2.5 million in 2015 from those same two firms , with the addition of Elaia Partners and a syndicate of angels . We 'll see how far these startups can travel beyond France . But no doubt new French president Emmanuel Macron , a big startup booster , will welcome any help in getting the country 's economy moving again .