Every year , Tech . Co holds the Startup of the Year competition , a pitch contest that pits a huge number of startups against each other in pursuit of capital , business resources , and bragging rights in the startup community . The competition takes place at our annual conference , Innovate ! and Celebrate , in San Francisco in October . And to say that startups leave happy would be more than an understatement . We reached out to a number of former Startup of the Year contestants in hopes of spurring a discussion about the value of the competition . We were so overwhelmed by the support and praise from these startup founders and entrepreneurs that we felt it necessary to share their insights with our readers . If you 're thinking about applying , now is the time to do it ! The Startup of the Year competition is n't about rewarding the companies you 've seen a thousand times in pitch competitions . Tech . Co is committed to inclusivity across all facets of startup life , and our contestants feel that commitment at our events . " The organizing team and staff were accommodating for Grok and the other companies , making sure everyone had their needs met during the event , " said Tarun Gangwani , Head of Product at Grok . " Our team was given many chances to network with experienced entrepreneurs and executives across multiple industries . Tech . Co ensured the event would be worth while , even if we did n't end up going on to win the competition itself . " This competition is n't meant to be an intimidating experience . The Startup of the Year competition is designed to make entrepreneurs , founders , and innovators feel welcomed by a community of peers that are all trying to do the same thing : make the world a better place . " The Tech . Co staff made us feel extremely welcomed , " said Courtney Caldwell , cofounder of ShearShare . They cared less about a team 's technical expertise or background and were much more focused on whether or not a company 's mission and model introduces new and innovative ideas that are outside of the standard prescription and ShearShare certainly fit that bill . " The goal of any startup competition should be to inspire the attendees , support the startups , and facilitate networking in as many ways as possible . Fortunately , given the size of our event , we think we accomplish that in spades . " There is a ton of work that goes into putting these events on and the team at Tech . Co always makes it seem like its easy going for all involved , " said James Ross , Cofounder of Hedgechatter . " They keep the group size to a manageable level , which is important because it only takes attending one of those super massive 1000 + exhibitor events to feel like your startup is just another speck of sand on the beach . The Startup of the Year competition on the other hand was sized right which allowed startups , entrepreneurs , investors , and attendees to really learn about products / services and have quality meetings with potential investors and customers . " Of course , the goal of a competition is to win . However , winning is n't the only thing , as Tech . Co provides a wide range of benefits for contestants , from networking opportunities and business resources to exposure and media attention . " The opportunity to network with founders from Silicon Valley is really unparalleled , " said Garrett Moon , CEO and cofounder of CoSchedule . " There was tons of energy and excitement during the entire event and working with other founders spurred a wealth of ideation and momentum beyond . " In addition to all the benefits of the event , taking part in the Startup of the Year competition provides unique opportunities outside of Tech . Co , which can lead to success in a number of different ways . " The accolades and recognition were wonderful and very uplifting to the team , but the very best thing was the booth we received at CES in January , " said Paul Droege , founder and CEO of SunPort . " The fact it was free was nice but it had an amazing , high - traffic location which was awesome . We leveraged the location into great visibility , made some great connections and learned a great deal by interacting with people during CES , all of which came from our Tech . Co win . " Winning any startup competition is going to do wonders for your progress . Just ask Stephanie Lampkin , the founder and CEO of Blendoor , whose company won the competition in 2015 . " Winning startup of the year provided a lot of validation that what we 're building is valuable which helped us get into a top 5 accelerator , " said Stephanie Lampkin , founder and CEO of Blendoor . " It also connected us with big tech companies who are now on our beta . " On the other hand , winning the Startup of the Year competition is not the only way to enjoy success . For example , 2015 finalist TurboAppeal was just acquired by Paradigm Tax Group in a move that can only be deemed successful . " It helped give us confidence in the validation behind our product as well as understand the reaction from the VC community as well as potential customers , " said Badal Shah , CEO of TurboAppeal . " We are grateful for the opportunity with Tech . Co . " If you think you have what it takes to be the Startup of the Year , you need to apply today . Remember , the 100 startups that are chosen will be invited to join us in San Francisco , CA for Innovate ! and Celebrate 2017 , and will be on their way to startup success in no time ! Read more about the Startup of the Year Competition here on Tech . Co