relayr , the global enterprise Internet - of - Things ( IoT ) platform provider , today announced its second strategic acquisition within two months . On the heels of its recent acquisition of device management company Proximetry , relayr has now completed the acquisition of artificial intelligence data security company Neokami . With the Neokami acquisition , relayr aims to add robust security to the relayr stack through machine learning and artificial intelligence . Neokami was founded in 2014 and is based in Munich ( Germany ) and in the US . Through Neokami , relayr is committed to addressing one of their customers ' top concerns , security for IoT implementations , by ensuring that security features are built into their product stack from the ground up . Not only does the Neokami acquisition integrate security , machine learning , and artificial intelligence capabilities to relayr 's products , but also brings the great talents of Neokami 's team members to work with existing relayr partners . relayr CEO Josef Brunner stated : " We can only be successful by keeping the success of our customers at the center of our strategy . The acquisition of Neokami , just as with Proximetry , is the result of relayr 's deeply held commitment to listening to our customers and partners feedback and delivering the IoT solutions that they need most . " relayr , which is headquartered in Berlin , will continue to invest in organic growth of Neokami 's Munich operations , and plans to grow that location to 30 team members by the end of the year . Neokami 's US presence will be merged with relayr 's headquarters in Boston . relayr was founded in 2013 and is a rapidly growing Enterprise IoT company , providing the enterprise middleware for the digital transformation of industries . relayr develops sustainable IoT solutions , based on the OpenFog IoT reference architecture and it 's own stack . The young company addresses the central challenge of the Internet of Things , digitizing physical objects , with an end - to - end development solution consisting of an IoT cloud platform that communicates from Any - to - Any ( any service , any software , any platform , any sensor ) ; open source software development kits ; and a team of IoT experts to support rapid prototyping and implementation .  