( Kurt Schlosser / GeekWire )   " It 's not a real sexy story right now . " That 's how GeekWire co - founder John Cook described the Seattle startup scene during our recent podcast about the past year in technology . There were a number of new Seattle - based startups that sprouted up in 2016 , along with several lucrative financing deals like OfferUp 's $ 119 million round and Accolade 's $ 70 million cash infusion . But while Seattle 's startup activity still ranks among the world 's best and is a key component of the city 's broader technology ecosystem , there are a few inhibitors that may be stunting its full potential . Listen to the podcast below , download the MP3 here , and continue reading for more analysis .   While having so many Silicon Valley tech giants open up engineering centers in the Seattle region -- Google , Apple , Facebook , Uber , Salesforce , Oculus , Twitter , Palantir , and many others have large offices here -- is beneficial for the overall tech ecosystem , it also could be keeping would - be entrepreneurs from starting their own ventures . Cook noted that if an engineer is deciding between a $ 100,000 salary at a new startup , or a $ 200,000 salary at a company like Facebook , a lot of folks may take the beefier paycheck rather than risk their careers at a startup . " It 's taken a lot of the oxygen out of the room as it relates to the startup community , " Cook said of the out - of - town companies establishing their offices in Seattle . That 's in addition to Microsoft and Amazon , the two tech giants based in the area that remain bedrocks of the tech community . Amazon , which launched two decades after Microsoft and continues to buy more real estate in downtown Seattle , is particularly notable as it relates to employees who have an opportunity to leave and launch their own startup , much like we 've seen with former Microsofties . " I 've been amazed that , even as Amazon has grown , it 's been able to retain this entrepreneurial culture and energy , " Cook said . " If you 're at a big company that allows you to do that ... that 's hard to compete with . I think a lot of those people are still locked up at Amazon and haven't left . " I remain bullish about the long - term future of the Seattle startup ecosystem . I believe some folks taking jobs in the Seattle area at companies like Google , Facebook , and others will save enough cash and get the startup itch , either by way of investing in local startups or creating their own companies here . The money will flow back into the ecosystem , ultimately bolstering Seattle startup activity . Cook agreed , but said it will take a " change of culture and style " in Seattle , a city where people tend to prefer working for many years at big companies rather than launching a startup . He added that there still does n't seem to be enough capital in the region available for startups ; Seattle has long been critiqued for its general lack of investors , both from the angel side and VC . Numbers from PwC 's recent MoneyTree Report show $ 617 million invested in Washington state companies through the third quarter , which is more than the total invested in 2011 . Even so , investment totals are down 42 percent this year compared to last year . The number of venture deals also has fallen , from 65 deals through the end of the third quarter of 2016 , compared to 104 deals for the same period last year , according to MoneyTree . Here 's a look at the list of the biggest VC deals in the Northwest , according to PitchBook . On the IPO front , there were three Seattle - based companies that went public in 2016 : PhaseRx , Impinj , and Apptio . That 's up from 2015 , when no companies from the Seattle region completed IPOs , but it 's still down from prior years . According to CB Insights ' fifth annual Tech IPO Pipeline Report , there were only 14 U.S .- based tech companies that went public in 2016 , which is down from 28 in 2015 and 62 in 2014 . The report also pointed to seven Seattle - area companies that are poised for an IPO next year : Avalara , Rover , PayScale , Redfin , OfferUp , Avvo , and Inrix .