The global payments landscape has significantly evolved over the past decade . The rapid rise and equally rapid evolution of online and mobile commerce has given rise to a wave of new payment methods . E - wallets , in - app purchasing , and peer - to - peer payments are all products of consumers ' increasing comfort with digital commerce . In many developed markets , older payment methods , such as checks and payment on delivery , are being replaced by alternatives that make online and mobile transactions frictionless , thus further feeding consumer appetites for online shopping . By 2020 , the digital portion of global retail sales is on pace to double from $ 1.9 trillion to $ 4 trillion , according to eMarketer . That 's not counting online sales of travel and tickets ! With the growth of international ecommerce platforms like Shopify and Magento and payment platforms like PayPal and Stripe , the barriers to ecommerce are crumbling , giving life to new businesses , opening up new revenue streams for established players , facilitating economic trade , and driving technology advancements worldwide . As ecommerce continues to become increasingly global , fueled by growth of internet coverage around the world and higher levels of smartphone penetration , the forms consumers use to pay for their digital and physical goods will continue to evolve as well . Major technology companies , such as Facebook , Google , Apple and Microsoft , which are engaging in cross - border business and providing global services , are tasked with deploying their services on top of old and fragmented payment infrastructures . This is particularly challenging in emerging markets , because each country has its own legal framework , issuers , acquirers , processors , and gateways , resulting in payment methods that may appear to be very similar on the surface but are very different under the hood . In addition , consumers in emerging markets are still relying on alternative payment methods like bank transfers , installments , and voucher - based methods involving cash . Their payment preferences vary from country to country . Companies that wish to expand into fast growing markets such as Latin America , for example , are faced with the dilemma of how to add hundreds of different payment methods in a manner that works with their technology systems and operations , or be satisfied with reaching only about 20 percent of consumers who have access to international credit cards . This challenge has given rise to a number of increasingly important technologies and companies influencing the payment arena in markets across the world . I 'm not talking about Apple Pay , Android Pay and PayPal ; their worthy contributions have already been chronicled on hundreds of occasions . Stripe , however , deserves plenty of praise , as well as companies like BlueSnap and Payoneer . They are the ones powering a new breed of business such as marketplaces , content companies and ad networks , as well as some traditional online retailers and merchants , with API - based payment solutions that are global - ready and mobile - first . Because emerging markets are so complex and so different from each other , ecommerce and digital goods companies are also starting to partner with payments technology companies with deep roots in these markets and coverage of the full locally relevant payment mix . When selecting a payments technology partner for emerging markets , merchants need to ensure that their future partner has : While digital banking and technology evolves to encompass payments , the needs and wants of consumers are also evolving ( though at different pace and with different preferences , depending on the country or region ) . Merchants and payment providers will rise to the occasion to meet these challenges and gain a stronger global foothold . Country - governments will also play their role in welcoming cross - border ecommerce and encouraging digital payment innovation . We 'll see further growth in mobile checkouts , increased availability of branded payment apps that marry transactions with loyalty programs , like the one by Starbucks , as well as broader availability of multi - currency cards . As the world 's biggest tech companies work to secure customer loyalty in the payment arena , they will begin by integrating features into the desktop and mobile interfaces . Google , Apple and Microsoft will begin deploying in - browser payments , while Facebook , along with other social media and social messaging entities , will likely introduce commerce platforms and cross - border money transfers in - app . The next few years will certainly be exciting for those of us in the fintech , mobile and e - commerce arenas , as we work together to deliver a truly borderless commerce experience regardless of where the consumer may be . Sebastian Kanovich is the CEO and Co - Founder of dLocal , which provides a cross - border payments platform that focuses on enabling e - commerce businesses in the U.S. and Europe expand into emerging markets .