On this International Women 's Day , women are striking to make clear their value in the workplace , at home and beyond . That includes the tech world .   According to the Department of Labor , only 26 percent of people employed in computer and mathematics jobs are women . And a big chunk of that 26 percent comes from outside Silicon Valley .   Despite the challenges facing any engineer who does n't fit in with the testosterone - fueled culture of Silicon Valley , many women have made their mark in the field -- and fought to make it better .   On International Women 's Day , it 's worth celebrating a few of the tech world 's badass women .    Bumble founder Whitney Wolfe . Image :   noam galai / Getty Images for TechCrunch Whitney Wolfe left her job as a co - founder at Tinder amid allegations of sexual harassment at the company , but she refused to quit the dating app game . Instead of going quietly , she founded Bumble , the app that gives women control when swiping .   Not only did Wolfe help create two of the biggest players in online dating , but she did it on her own terms . Bumble has expanded beyond dating to matching friends on Bumble BFF , and raised $ 40,000 for Planned Parenthood in January . Not bad !    Laura Weidman Powers at SXSW . Image :   jealex photo / Getty Images for SXSW Laura Weidman Powers is one of the tech industry 's strongest advocates for diversity . With CODE2040 , she supports young black and Latino engineers , working to ensure they are proportionally represented in the field .   Weidman Powers also served in the Obama White House as a senior policy advisor to the chief technology officer .    Ellen Pao . Image :   maria aufmuth / Getty Images for Massachusetts Conference for Women Ellen Pao ran Reddit , and before that she was a junior partner at the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers .   Her name might sound familiar because she sued that company for gender discrimination . Pao lost the suit , but she brought sorely needed attention to bias in Silicon Valley tech culture . She is the cofounder of Project Include , a nonprofit that provides recommendations for startup management on how to build more diverse companies . Laura Gomez is an advocate for diversity in tech , and supports that mission in her day job , too . As CEO of the people analytics tool Atipica , the Twitter alumna helps companies use data to strategize in hiring . That includes using data to help companies build more diverse workforces .    Slack 's Erica Joy Baker . Image :   noam galai / Getty Images for TechCrunch Erica Joy Baker is one of the women behind Slack , the communication tool that has taken over offices nationwide . A former Googler , she splits her time between her roles as a senior engineer at Slack and as an advocate for diversity and more widely accessible tech education .   She also helps translate tech -- and the problems within it -- to the outside world by blogging about diversity , racism and life as a black woman in Silicon Valley .    Reshma Saujani at Advertising Week in New York . Image :   robin marchant / Getty Images for Advertising Week New York Reshma Saujani founded Girls Who Code , the powerhouse nonprofit that has helped to make coding education -- and its gender gap -- more visible . Saujani has run for office and recruited high - profile ambassadors to Girls Who Code , like supermodel Karlie Kloss .    Unlike that other ride - hailing company with all the problems with its treatment of women , Lyft has an awesome woman at the helm . Jill Wetzler is the director of engineering at Lyft , which she joined after stops at Salesforce and Twitter .   Recently , Wetzler told USA Today College that her best career advice was to " know your worth . "   " If I feel stuck , or underutilized , or if I feel like I 'm not getting to have the type of impact that I think I can have , I remind myself to know what I 'm worth , " she said . " Sometimes , that reminder causes me to do something bold . "   Black Girls Code founder Kimberly Bryant at Glamour Women Of The Year 2016 . Image :   mike windle / Getty Images for Glamour Kimberly Bryant founded Black Girls Code to give young women of color the opportunity to learn the skills to succeed in the tech industry . Bryant has a long resume in tech and has prioritized supporting the next generation along with her own work .   So if I can prioritize diversity + inclusion w/ a TINY budget and as a Black woman CEO . I see no excuses for others . None . # DoBetter -- Kimberly Bryant ( @6Gems ) October 16 , 2015 Arlan Hamilton founded Backstage Capital , a venture capital firm that invests in startups by women , minority and LGBT entrepreneurs . Her portfolio of startups is impressive , and committed to her initial vision . And Hamilton got Backstage Capital off the ground , despite lukewarm responses from mainstream investors , while she was homeless .   Hamilton has emphasized that her firm is n't a nonprofit -- it 's trying to make money , just like its competitors . But Backstage Capital is able to do that by finding the best ideas from groups who often do n't get the support they need to get started .   Belinda Johnson has been called " Airbnb 's Sheryl Sandberg . " As chief business affairs and legal officer for the home - rental giant , she helps craft the company 's approach to regulators and woos its hosts to act as Airbnb 's biggest supporters . Johnson has years of experience guiding the legal affairs of internet companies , including in the early days of Yahoo . As Airbnb 's CEO grows his public profile , Johnson is running things behind the scenes .   Stacy Brown - Philpot is the CEO of TaskRabbit and an alumna of both Google and Goldman Sachs . At Google , she was the senior director of global consumer operations and ran sales operations in India . Along with running one of the major players in the gig economy today , she serves as a board member at Black Girls Code .    Tracy Chou at TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2015 . Image :   steve jennings / Getty Images for TechCrunch Tracy Chou is an engineer and alumna of Pinterest and Quora . She also helped spur tech companies to disclose diversity statistics through a Github project that collected numbers on women in engineering . Today , most major tech companies publicly share diversity information about their workforces -- and Chou 's repository played a big part in that .     