The issue of gender is more than prevalent in today 's society . Whether you participated in one of the many Women 's Marches across the world this weekend or snidely commented on Facebook posts behind your computer screen , the reality of the economic gender gap is too obvious to ignore . Particularly when the World Economic Forum 's Gender Gap Report for 2016 comes out with enough data to squash any debate on the matter . According to the report , there are a lot of things to be excited about when it comes to the gender gap . For one , Western Europe is expected to close the gender gap within the next fifty years . Likewise , regions like the Middle East and Latin America are experiencing some of the fastest advancements in years , despite their initial terrible ranking . Similarly , education numbers across the world have improved for women , with the gap in tertiary education being closed completely for 95 countries . However , when it comes to North America , progress is n't on the menu . While this region is considered one of the most impressive when it comes to economic gender equality , the progress for North America has been negative since 2016 , with a steady decline in recent years . The lowered ranking for the US in particular was " due to a revised estimate of the size of the gender gap in estimated earned income ; however , the country 's female labour force participation has also been stagnating for a number of years , including among legislators , senior officials and managers . "   Perhaps the numbers are down because people have forgotten about the importance of gender equality in the world . While many see it has an attack on men , the report goes on to explain that gender parity is n't just good for women , it 's good for everyone . And , according to the report , there is a clear values - based case for promoting gender parity . " Ensuring the healthy development and appropriate use of half of the world 's total talent pool has a vast bearing on the growth , competitiveness and future readiness of economies and businesses worldwide , " said the authors of the report . Much like the necessity for diversity in tech , the need for gender parity is n't a pet project that might work out . It has been proven time and time again that equality is good for business . So if you really want your startup to succeed , grow , and flourish , it 's time to start closing the gender gap . H / T World Economic Forum