Yi - Jian Ngo , Managing Director of the Alliance of Angels , oversees the Northwest 's largest and most - active Angel network that facilitates $ 10MM+ investment across 20 + companies each year . For early - to - mid stage startups , understanding what investors are thinking and expect from your pitch and what founders should think about going into a meeting is helpful . Yi - Jian 's recently offered his advice to startups at a Galvanize Study Hall , here 's what he said : Depending on the size of the round you 're raising , there are clear pros and cons to raising from individuals or angel groups . Yi - Jian suggested if you are raising a relatively small round such as $ 100k , it could be highly advantageous to pitch to individuals because it could only take one meeting . However , if you are raising $ 500k or more , pitching to individuals becomes more time consuming and far less efficient than pitching to groups and if you are successful , it will lead to multiple investors , which is a good thing , but due diligence often takes longer . There are different level of pitching . Yin - Jian explained that the first level of in - person pitches is the 20 - 120 second elevator pitch . You 'll often hear terms like the Uber for moving or Airbnb for warehouse space . The goal of this interaction is to gauge interest and request a follow - up meeting to discuss further . The second is the demo day style pitch . This is when you have a captive audience and have the ability to take 5 - 10 minutes to dive into a few details to really gather interest . Once again , the intent here for founders is to schedule a follow up meeting . The third and final in - person pitch is the investor pitch . This pitch should be fine - tuned to suit your audience and address all of the standard points . To cover the investor pitch would require it 's own entire post , but for prime example of pitch decks from some of the biggest unicorns check out 30 Legendary Pitch Decks and What You Can Learn From Them . This is a highly disputed question . Should all founders be living in their mom 's garages eating ramen ? What about experienced founders with exits under their belts taking home large salaries ? According to Yi - Jian it depends on the circumstances but there is always one common factor : is the founder happy ? If you are starting a company fresh out of college and can live on $ 2500 a month , do that . If you can live on nothing , awesome . If you have a family , a mortgage , and bills to pay , it makes sense to take $ 60-$80K. In addition to the Founder Happiness rule , Yi - Jian also says that there is a common trend when raising capital . When companies raise a Series A round they are no longer on what many would consider a shoestring budget . He says that at this point a founder will usually take $ 100 - 150k salary on a $ 3MM round . What metrics do investors want to see in their meetings ? Yi - Jian said at the angel stage it 's not in the numbers , necessarily . There are many more variables that are difficult to measure and need to be addressed first . Individual investors want to understand , how good is your team , what problem does your product solve , do people care , and how are you going to tell more people about it . With that said , numbers can be the most persuasive part of any pitch that can push investing angels to say yes . Far more investors are pushed to say no by founders not able to answer key questions . Read more advice about pitching to investors at Tech . Co . This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .