During the 2017 Budget Speech last week , the National Treasury announced that IP exchange control would be relaxed . While this is still an ongoing process , the South African Reserve Bank ( SARB ) has now implemented changes to the Currency and Exchanges Manual for Authorised Dealers ( Exchange Control Manual ) . Speaking to ExCo member of Silicon Cape and IP & tech lawyer at law firm Webber Wentzel , Aalia Manie , once again , she says that " that Exchange Control approval is still a requirement for cross - border intellectual property ( IP ) transactions . But now some of the approvals can be obtained from Authorised Dealers and will not require approval from SARB . " An extract of the amendment : " Authorised Dealers may ... approve the outright sale , transfer and assignment of intellectual property by South African residents [ ... ] " According to Manie , the Authorised Dealers are based at select banks and are nominated by the Minister of Finance . The Authorised Dealers engage with SARB on behalf of individuals and businesses when exchange control applications are submitted . " If Authorised Dealers can approve the transactions , it means that further applications need not be made to the SARB . " Another part of the amendment reads that the sale / transfer / assignment of IP can be made by a South African resident " [ ... ] to unrelated non - resident parties at an arm 's length and a fair and market related price [ ... ] " Ventureburn asked Manie to clarify this section . " ' Unrelated non - resident parties ' , put simply , means foreign third parties . " " ' Arm 's length and a fair and market related price ' effectively means that the price must be on par with would have been paid in the ' market ' . Another way of thinking about it is that the price must align with ' fair value ' or be determined as if the parties act independently , on equal footing and in their own self interest . " Manie also pointed that while this amendment does not solve all the problems with the Exchange Control policy framework which have been communicated by critics to date , the reforms should simplify administrative hurdles and other transaction delays , and are a step in the right direction . " The meaning of ' appropriate tax treatment ' must also be clarified , but we expect this means compliance with existing tax laws . " It will also be interesting to see whether unlisted technology companies take advantage of the relaxation regarding establishment of offshore companies , given the conditions imposed by SARB . " Read the full amendment below [ link ] : Intellectual Property Authorised Dealers may ... approve the outright sale , transfer and assignment of intellectual property by South African residents , excluding mandated state owned companies as defined in Schedule 2 of the Public Finance Management Act , 1999 ( Act No . 1 of 1999 ) , to unrelated non - resident parties at an arm 's length and a fair and market related price , provided Authorised Dealers view the sale , transfer or assignment agreement and an auditor 's letter or intellectual property valuation certificate confirming the basis for calculating the sale price . The above - mentioned dispensation excludes sale and lease back agreements . " ' Authorised Dealers may approve the licensing of intellectual property by South African residents to non - resident parties at an arm 's length and a fair and market related price for the term of the agreement , provided Authorised Dealers view the licence agreement and an auditor 's letter confirming the basis for calculating the royalty or licence fee ... " " The sale , transfer , assignment and/or licensing of intellectual property ... [ set out ] above is subject to appropriate tax treatment . "