Going green can start at home , but it does n't have to stay there . There are several different ways to make your office energy efficient . The benefits of being environmentally friendly are copious , between cutting costs and making life easier for employees . Depending on how you decide to help the environment , you may even be eligible for federal tax credits . If you 're interested in going green , here are a few things your startup can do it get ahead of the environmentally friendly game : Take a look at the paper you use , the cleaning products , type of thermostat and appliances you use . There are lots of cost - effective ways for you to immediately reduce your impact just by purchasing more Earth - friendly and energy - saving products . - Lisa Curtis of Kuli Kuli Foods We feel our impact is most beneficial by working with food businesses that have a sustainable mission . By supporting socially driven businesses to reach wider audiences , we are changing consumer behavior to make sustainable , conscious decisions . - Ariel Sultan of Food Guru The most valuable advice I 've seen is to stock non - disposable office supplies ( mechanical pencils , reusable pens , and refillable printer cartridges , just to name a few ) . You might also consider putting recycle bins next to printers and photocopiers , and encouraging employees to telecommute more . Finally , monitor systems that are left running when they do n't need to be and turn them off . - Steven Buchwald of Buchwald & Associates This is a pretty straightforward way to save trees and energy . Most financial institutions and many other business services offer an option to " go paperless . " By simply opting to receive statements and correspondence electronically , you can save a ton of wasted paper and all of the corresponding energy used to process and transport that paper . It 's an easy way to go green . - Chris Rodgers of Colorado SEO Pros This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .