Being in the military is a great honor in this country . But when the brave men and women return from serving the United States , many turn to entrepreneurship as a way to continue supporting themselves and their families . In fact , nine percent of all businesses in this country are veteran - owned , representing nearly six million employees , and $ 1.2 trillion in sales receipts . Between their commitment , their drive , and their ability to critically think under pressure , startup founder is the obvious next step for returning veterans . Phoenix is also home to veteran - led businesses , and they are especially important in this beautiful desert city , as they produce more on average than civilian businesses . If you 're interested in finding out what these veteran - led businesses and incubator are up to in Phoenix , take a look at a few of them below and be sure to check out Phoenix Startup Week powered by Chase for Business if you 're in the area : Veterans are a collection of some of the most dedicated , successful , and driven individuals the nation has to offer . That 's why The Armory , founded by Phillip Potter , hopes to build an entrepreneurial ecosystem around veteran founders by launching and scaling profitable and investment - worthy businesses founded by veterans . They generate deal flow and revenues so that these businesses can be profitable in no time . " It 's tremendously rewarding to work with such mission - focused individuals as they validate new business concepts and change the course of their lives , " said Potter . Founded by Paulo Shakarian and Jana Shakarian , Cyber Reconnaissance , Inc. ( trade name : CYR3CON(tm ) ) specializes in identifying cyber - threats in the earliest stages . Our software leverages both human analysts and advanced machine learning capabilities to search portions of the Internet where malicious hackers organize , plan , purchase malware , sell exploits , and conduct other activities prior to conducting a cyber - attack . Rush Club is an adrenaline - driven , heart - pounding , what - the - hell - did - I - just - see fitness entertainment that grabs your attention . Athletes go head - to - head in a competition for the title belt in their class . Founded by AJ Richards , Stacey Snyder , Kevin Korczyk , and Danny Page , the Rush Club stage is inclusive where elite adaptive athletes , missing limbs or in wheelchairs , share equal billing with non - adaptive athletes as they compete to be the best in their division .   Founded by , Jack Fisher , Kiran RajBhandary , and Gary Baudisch , EZ Dump Commercial Inc. ( EZDC ) , is an innovative design and engineering company focused on the waste receptacle needs of the commercial users in restaurant , hospitality , office , education , industrial and healthcare markets , offering a patented and safer solution - SmartcanMax .   Founded by Tom Bishop , Dan Rubin , and Dan Taffe , Zendoks is a technology startup focusing on building a platform to help facilitate the digital health revolution . We truly believe that the healthcare landscape will continue to change dramatically as consumer wearable technology becomes more prevalent . Read more about the startup ecosystem in Phoenix here on Tech . Co This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESSis everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .    Photo : Flickr / Defence Images