Bupa 's Customer Lab has just launched its new Blue Table accelerator programme , inviting startups and small businesses to partner with the company to tackle key customer challenges in insurance , health and care experiences and wellbeing change . Blue Table is the first project from Bupa 's new Customer Lab , which was recently established within the business to explore new ways of delivering high quality , comprehensive health and care services which meet customer needs in the digital age . Blue Table will offer startups and small businesses the chance to pilot and test their ideas inside a global health and care company while also giving them the opportunity to make a positive impact on the lives of the millions of customers Bupa serves worldwide . The 10-week programme will be run in collaboration with corporate innovation specialist L Marks and successful candidates will be mentored by senior Bupa business leaders and tech experts . They will have access to office space in central London to develop their ideas and L Marks will provide potential investment opportunities . As part of Blue Table , the Customer Lab is looking for pitches which deliver innovation solutions to key customer challenges in three key areas : There is also a wildcard category for startups and small businesses to showcase unique ideas and innovations in the wider health and care sector . Commenting on the launch of Blue Table , John Moore from the Bupa Customer Lab said : " One of Bupa 's key priorities is continuous improvement and innovation to meet customers ' needs in this digital age . Blue Table is a great opportunity for us to work and share our expertise with innovative startups and small businesses to get a new perspective on our own business and enhance the services we provide to millions of customers all over the world . " He continued : " We know there are many opportunities for innovation in the healthcare sector and we 're excited to see what startups and small businesses can bring to the table , delivering real benefits for customers and helping us to fulfil our purpose of helping people live longer , healthier , happier lives . " L Marks works with some of the UK 's best known brands , including John Lewis , International Airlines Group and EDF Energy . Chairman Stuart Marks said : " Bupa is one of the leading healthcare and insurance providers in the market , which makes Blue Table a unique opportunity for talented startups looking to fast - track their business by revitalising the healthcare sector and help improve Bupa 's customer experience . I am excited that L Marks are on board to discover and get involved with the development of these new and relevant innovations . " Applications are now open and close on until Thursday 15 June 2017 . For more info , check out the video below . To apply , please visit www.bupabluetable.com .  