For much of the 20th century , businesses were focused on extracting resources , creating products , and providing services that simply met the needs of their customer . And yet , as they focused on what the customer was purchasing , very little emphasis was put towards how customers interacted with the company as a whole . Perhaps your checked bag went missing after a recent enjoyable flight , or your speedy internet provider overcharged you , and a customer service representative could n't figure out why . During his workshop on incorporating service design as a startup , Marc Mueller , a UX researcher at Universal Mind , noted that commodities are fungible , goods are tangible , services are intangible , and experiences should be memorable . As a startup , there 's ample opportunity from day one to consider every touch point you will have with a customer - from their first interaction with your website to purchasing your product . Mueller followed by asking a thought provoking question to the room : How do you craft an experience that helps you compete with ( or beat ) the incumbents of your industry ? Service design experts suggest that when you place equal value on the customer experience and the business process within every decision , you 'll have created a memorable interaction that will keep customers coming back for more . To execute service design as a business , determine how and where these four concepts fit into your business strategy : guests and hosts , actors and staging , narratives and encounters , or choreography . It might sound a bit like Westworld , and there 's good reason for that . A well - executed service design places a heavy emphasis on ensuring that the four concepts mentioned above have your value proposition in mind . They understand your brand , how you communicate , and what leads to a successful delivery of your product or service . Ultimately , it affects every aspect of your business , not limited to your bottom line . Consider the premium consumers pay for an Apple or Patagonia product and the experience they have in their retail stores . Buying a computer or jacket at Walmart might cost you less , but the experience and quality is worlds apart . Mueller proposed the exercise of thinking deeper about how you draft personas of your target customers . Most entrepreneurs build a persona based on how the marketing world views a customer , focusing on buying motivations and behaviors . This is fine for determining how to sell the product , but not how the product should work . Instead , consider the way a designer would draft a persona . The focus shifts to user goals , behaviors , and pain points , which helps tell the story of why a user chose a specific product versus an alternative . This deeper understanding helps to build empathy between the company and their user - the beginnings of a valuable experience . To help dissect how that customer interacts with your product or service , and the pain points that exist within that process , let 's look at an experience at an airport through the use of a journey map . Journey maps are a visualization of the journey a persona typically goes through as part of their service experience .   The x - axis in this case is time , and the y - axis is the emotional state of someone going through the airport . Once you 've mapped out your customer 's journey , you 've got the makings for a blueprint about your company 's service design . Mueller suggests that every company , big or small , has the ability to spread their resources across the following three categories : Operational Excellence , Product Leadership , and Customer Intimacy . It 's within this realm that companies like Apple and Microsoft can compete in the market yet craft different experiences for their target customer based on their goals and pain points . The post How Is Your Business Supporting Your Customers ? appeared first on Galvanize . This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .