Event Flavour , a new kind of self - service ticketing and venue booking platform , has been launched just a few weeks ago . The Berlin - based startup aims to provide all the tools and technology that are required to make your event successful and far - reaching . With Event Flavour you can create your event with just a few clicks and start selling tickets and manage your attendees with ease . Also , Event Flavour offers a convenient venue management system , where venue owners can list their event locations and attract additional event organizers . In short , it aims to provide the ultimate one - stop platform where people can find venues of their choice and organise the events according to their preferences . Users can then also promote the events and attract attendees through the Event Flavour platform . The startup provides a great event hosting platform for all kinds of events , be it corporate , entertainment , educational , conferences , networking meetings , seminars , exhibitions , political rallies , gaming competitions or any other kind of event . Event Flavour aims to be the perfect place for hosting your events and finding the perfect venue for the event with ease . Some of the key features of Event Flavour are : 1 . Sell tickets within minutes : Event Flavour enables you to start selling tickets pretty quickly . Its platform provides a fast setup experience and a convenient solution for posting events . 2 . Get paid faster : Using Event Flavour , you 're able to receive cash instantly . You do n't have to worry about receiving funds until your event ends any more . You will be paid instantly . 3 . Competitive low fees : The platforms service charge is below industry standard . You also have the opportunity to pass on Event Flavour 's service fee to the attendees . This way you do n't have to pay anything . Event Flavour generates direct mapping between events and venues and allows both parties to have a good benefit . With Event Flavour , users do n't have to use different platforms for planning an event and finding a venue . Both can be done under one roof with a lot of ease . " Your Events and Venues Search Place " , is the slogan which Ashok Dudhat , the founder behind Event Flavour , created for his startup . Ashok 's vision is to improve the way events and venues are discovered online . Event Flavour has been bootstrapped so far and was created by a small team in Berlin and Surat ( India ) .