As the growth of Pause 2017 into Australia 's premier event for those interested in the convergence of the business , tech , and creative spheres has shown , the Australian startup ecosystem has come in leaps and bounds over the last few years . Where the terms ' startup ' and ' innovation ' were essentially unknown five or six years ago and entrepreneurship as a career path reserved for only a small subset of the population , now more people than ever before are thinking about diving into startup life and considering how to go about it . Starting their journey three years ago were Lucy Lloyd and Heidi Holmes , cofounders of mentoring platform Mentorloop . The startup aims to make it easier to start , manage , and participate in mentoring relationships within a company , with the aim being to facilitate the development of strong workplace culture , higher employee engagement , and lower staff turnover . " We started Mentorloop like many people start their startups : as a side thing , fitting it in around our already busy jobs ; Heidi had another full - time business , I was digital director of an ad agency , " Lloyd explained . " The early challenges were ones of limited time and money , as we bootstrapped Mentorloop . As neither of us is a developer we paid external developers to build the product for us , which was our biggest expense , but it paid off for us in that , because we were so tight with money , we never built anything we did n't need . " The biggest was identifying and acting on the ' all in ' moment , the point where they would leave their other commitments and go in full - time on the startup . For Lloyd and Holmes this moment turned out to be last May : Mentorloop was in market , they had their first paying customers , and had attracted commitment on $ 200,000 of what would end up being their $ 350,000 seed round . Attracting that funding was another challenge in itself . While there has never been more funding available across the Australian tech and startup landscape , the competition is fierce as the number of businesses increases . If they choose to look for funding , the decision of when to go after it is yet another difficult one that founders must make . Then comes the question of , how much ? Capital can help you develop and scale , but raising funding also means giving a portion of your business away . Set to unlock the secrets of capital raising at Pause 2017 's Tech Day are Lloyd and Holmes ; StartupAUS board member Glenn Smith ; Alex Robinson , cofounder of Airly ; and cofounder of Elevio , Chris Duell . The quintet will be speaking on an interactive panel about their experiences with startup investing in Australia . For Lloyd and Holmes , the decision to seek funding came when they saw their first three paying clients were still with them six months later . " We knew we were solving a real problem for our customers , " Lloyd said . " We could have continued to plug along and slowly grow the business but we did n't want to miss the opportunity , we wanted to accelerate our product development and business growth . This was the point where we decided to raise capital . " Once the decision to undertake a raise was made , the process of preparing to raise took several months . For the six months leading up to it they talked with VCs , angel investors , and family and friends about the business and the fact they were raising to get advice and put feelers out . From there the cofounders identified around 30 people they liked and thought would bring strategic value to the business , who in turn were interested in the cofounders and Mentorloop . From there they sent out letters and awaited responses , and then provided those interested with a formal deck on the business . A few months later they knew who was in , and for how much . Key to it all , believes Lloyd , was being prepared beyond the pitch . " While there 's a lot of emphasis on pitching in the startup scene , we did n't see any investment arising purely from a pitch scenario , " she said . " We got to know our investors over time , over many coffees , with a lot of back and forth . You need to know you can work together , so if you 're going to need to spend , say , 20 hours communicating with an investor before they sign , then you 'd better get started well before you actually need the money ! " Another big lesson Lloyd and Holmes learned is that investors want to know about more than just the product , they want to know about the business . As well as opening up on financials , users , and projections , founders need to be able to pitch the business vision , the culture , their strengths as founders , the business model , and growth plans . " The product is only one part of what will make investors sign on . " While Lloyd believes the funding has allowed Mentorloop to do in 12 months what would have taken three to five years to do without it , for her and Holmes the ideal investors were those who brought value to the business beyond the money . " We have a couple who are amazing connectors , always introducing us to potential clients and partners ; we have a couple who have spent significant time in sales - they coach us on how better to qualify and close leads ; we have a lawyer and accountants - always helpful expertise . We get along well with our investors , they 're a group of people we can get together with for a beer and good chat . " With so many lessons learned in Mentorloop 's capital raising journey , Lloyd is eager to share all the advice she can at Pause 2017 to make it easier for others considering whether or not to take the first step . " It 's been an incredible learning curve , which is why we 've organised this panel for Pause Fest ; there 's a lot of content out there from investors on why or how they invest , but we found the advice that made a difference to us came from other startups . " Pause Fest 2017 will take place at Federation Square on the 8th-10th of February 2017 . Tickets can be purchased here .