Costa Rica , Egypt , India and Thailand are set to test a new method for collecting statistics that would provide governments with key data on trade in services , according to an official from United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD ) . Trade in services , worth $ 4.8bn in 2015 , nearly doubled over the past decade as new information and communications technologies ( ICTs ) made it easier to outsource more complex business services , such as marketing and management consulting , and lowered barriers and entry costs , especially for businesses in developing countries . But current statistical reporting does not make it possible to calculate how much is supplied online and how much is delivered in a more traditional manner , for example , by sending experts to overseas clients . " The lack of data makes it difficult for developing countries trying to position themselves in the growing global market for business process outsourcing , " said Torbjorn Fredriksson , chief of UNCTAD 's ICT Analysis Section . " Many countries want to take advantage of the new opportunities but do n't know whether they 're succeeding since they lack tools to measure it , " he said , adding that policymakers currently have to rely on market estimates , often from consulting firms . Collection of data will go some way to helping governments nurture digital economies and , of course , the startup businesses often associated with these developments . Government initiatives , such as Chile 's Start - Up Chile program , are essential to the propagation of successful startup cultures across the world . Collecting data will assist projects like by capturing the true value of services that are traded online . To gather this information , UNCTAD is working with the governments of Costa Rica , Egypt , India and Thailand to develop a statistical survey that would make curating this data easier , in a project that is financially supported by the Swedish government . Having met with UNCTAD and other international experts in Geneva earlier this month to start ironing out survey details , the countries expect to start collecting data by April 2017 , with preliminary data available before the World Trade Organization 's ministerial conference in Buenos Aires in December 2017 . " The new data will give governments some reliable and comparable statistics to support talks on issues related to digital trade , " said Fredriksson . " By showing more precisely what is happening in these four countries , governments will finally have a better picture of the volume and composition of ICT - enabled services , " he added .   