The entrepreneurial initiative , Endeavor SA , has recently concluded a study showing how its high - impact entrepreneurs affect job creation within the country . " Our results show a decade of phenomenal financial and job growth with approximately 21 000 jobs created by Endeavor South Africa companies since 2004 , " said the MD of Endeavor SA , Catherine Townshend , in a press release to Ventureburn . " This is an indicator of a community that is growing and gaining momentum , and we are excited to see Endeavor South Africa fast becoming an enabler of positive change , " she continued . In 2007 , it launched an accelerator aimed at black - owned startups which demonstrated an ability to scale . " We believe that by searching for and strategically supporting a select group of high - impact entrepreneurs who are transforming their communities , their industries and their countries , will drive the positive momentum that is so desperately needed , " said Townshend . According to Endeavor 's non - profit research arm , their entrepreneurs are four times more likely to inspire others as well as eight times more likely to serve as mentors and to invest in other entrepreneurs . " In South Africa , where both venture capital and high - level mentorship have been notoriously tough to access for emerging business leaders , organisations such as Endeavor can have an immediate and incredibly transformative impact , " concluded Townshend . The current Endeavor portfolio reflects the growth the initiative has undergone . According to the company , its SA portfolio currently consists of approximately 200 mentors and an active network of 34 entrepreneurs from 23 companies . The portfolio also consists of six accelerator entrepreneurs from six companies and an alumni network of 40 entrepreneurs from 31 companies . They also feature 34 accelerator entrepreneurs from 26 companies . " By selecting businesses that have high growth potential and local impact , Endeavor essentially builds upon a robust global network that provides inspiration , invaluable connections to experienced local and global mentors , opportunities to grow into global markets through the global Endeavor network and eventually , access to capital , " said Townshend .