The International Federation of Robotics forecast that unit shipments for the global market for vacuum cleaning robots , lawn - mowing robots and other household cleaning robots will grow at a CAGR of 33% through 2019 . Other research reports say revenue for the market will reach $ 2.5 billion by 2020 at a CAGR of 15% . America 's biggest provider , iRobot , in their earnings disclosure delivered this week , reported very strong sales in the United States ; 2016 sales were up more than 35% over a record 2015 . Total units shipped in fiscal 2015 were 2,436,000 compared to 2,174,000 units in fiscal 2014 . International shipments in 2015 represented 10.77% of revenue but increased only 1.5% over 2014 . No unit data was released for fiscal 2016 .   iRobot 's stock steadily doubled over the last 12 months but took a $ 7 dive on the date of the earnings report . The increase in domestic home robots revenue was primarily attributable to increased sales as a result of significant investments in advertising media and national promotions as well as the launch of Roomba 980 . International home robots revenue growth slowed compared to fiscal 2014 as a result of negative macroeconomic conditions , specifically in Japan and Russia , offset by a significant growth increase in China . iRobot is eyeing Asia for growth and recently launched a $ 290 Braava jet mopping robot customized for China . iRobot has also acquired the iRobot related distribution business of privately - held Sales On Demand Corporation ( SODC ) based in Tokyo , Japan . The acquisition , which is expected to close in April 2017 , will enable iRobot to get closer to Japanese consumers and retail partners , and thus allow the company to better address Japanese market needs . Mother 's Day , Father 's Day and , in China , Singles Day are all big shopping holidays . Singles Day is held on November 11th ( 11/11 ) . [ November 11 was chosen for the annual holiday because no other date has as many 1 's , or " singles " . ] On that date in 2016 Ecovacs popular robot vacuum Deebot outsold TVs to emerge as the top - selling home electronic appliance on Tmall , a business - to - customer platform of Alibaba , the online sales network . Ecovacs reported that their online sales exceeded $ 47 million which equates to approximately 188,000 units . David Qian , who is in charge of Ecovacs ' international business , said : " After decades of development , the household robot industry is , in fact , still in its infancy . Future domestic robots will become multifunctional . Just cleaning floors will be not enough . " " China 's swelling middle class has a rising demand for domestic cleaning , home security and surveillance robots , " said Luo Jun , CEO of the Asian Manufacturing Association . " Robots can make doing housework interesting and cool , " said Liu De , co - founder and vice - president of Xiaomi . As a consequence , both domestic and foreign enterprises are scrambling to participate in the market . Chinese home appliance firms such as Haier Group and TCL Corp are eyeing the market with similar products , making the market increasingly crowded . Chinese smartphone vendor Xiaomi Corp launched a smart vacuum cleaner last September . Priced at $ 246 , the machine is equipped with 12 sensors and a central processing unit . Instead of bouncing around the room and haphazardly picking up debris , Xiaomi said it can automatically measure the size of the room and map the best routes to do cleaning .   iRobot is planning to quadruple its presence in the Chinese market after setting up its Chinese headquarters in Shanghai last September .   " The global household robots market is growing about 25 percent annually , but in China , the growth rate is close to 70 or 100 percent , " said Colin Angle , chairman and CEO of iRobot . Prominent companies besides Ecovacs and iRobot operating in the market are Dyson Ltd. , Infinuvo , Koninklijke Philips N.V. , LG Electronics Inc. , Neato Robotics Inc. , Intellibot Robotics , Yujin Robot , and Samsung Electronics to name just a few . At CES in Las Vegas in January , one could see that the current consumer products fad seems to have shifted gears from big TVs to robots . CES may well become the goto tradeshow for consumer oriented robotic start - ups . Smart devices for the home offering compatibility with Amazon 's Alexa , Google Home and Apple 's HomeKit were all crowd pleasers but one could see Amazon everywhere . By opening up their Alexa Voice Service , it 's now being integrated into cars ( Ford , VW ) , smartphones ( Huawei ) , robot vacuums ( LG ) , remotes ( DirectTV ) and LG refrigerators . Voice activation that works - as Amazon 's Alexa and Siri are proving - is becoming real and offers a new selling point for techies and other early adopters of robotic vacuums and other home products . < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >