The University of Newcastle ( UON ) has announced the appointment of Dr Sarah Pearson , formerly CEO of Canberra 's CBR Innovation Network ( CBRIN ) , as its inaugural Pro Vice - Chancellor of Industry Engagement and Innovation . In the role , Pearson will work towards building industry partnerships for the university , while accelerating its entrepreneurial support through innovation hubs and working towards the commercialisation of research . Pearson expressed her excitement about the appointment , saying she 's been following the university 's progression in the innovation space closely for a while and is looking forward to continuing its development . " I am passionate about bringing ideas to life in order to benefit the global community ; research institutions play a vital role in realising this , " she said . " My experience working across research , industry and in close partnership with government , in all parts of the innovation system , will help me provide a strong base for the University of Newcastle to make further progression in the space . " With a long history in the entrepreneurial space , Pearson founded CBRIN in 2014 off the back of an ACT government push to support local innovation . A collaboration between its founding partners CSIRO , Data 61 , UNSW Canberra , University of Canberra , Canberra Institute of Technology and Australian National University , the organisation offers events , workshops , coworking space and mentorship to local startups . Pearson was also behind the launch of the organisation 's accelerator program , in addition to developing activities and programs for kids designed to encourage interest in science , technology , engineering and mathematics ( STEM ) . The appointment comes as part of the university 's push towards supporting local innovation and industry , according to Deputy Vice - Chancellor for Research and Innovation Professor Kevin Hall , which will be aided by Pearson 's " extensive links " to the innovation ecosystem . " I am proud the University of Newcastle is making proactive steps to strengthen our ties to industry and make the world - class research happening at our institution continue to translate into global solutions , " said Hall . " Dr Pearson 's vast experience working between research and industry , as well as her extensive links with the international innovation community will give our institution the leadership necessary for the University to make its mark on a global scale . " Part of UON 's push towards supporting innovative projects , last year saw the university contribute $ 8 million towards the government 's Hunter Innovation Project , a project designed to transform NSW 's Hunter region into an digital innovation hub . The university also launched its Integrated Innovation Network , an initiative to create spaces for researchers , startups and small - to - medium enterprises ( SMEs ) to collaborate , as backed by $ 1 million from the state government 's Boosting Business Innovation Grant .