It may come as a surprise to many , but most startup founders are actually in their 30 's , and 38 percent are over 40 , according to a study conducted by Mattermark on behalf of Bloomberg Beta . Even more enlightening is the fact the average age of successful startup founders is 40 years old . These founders often have years of experience in more conventional industries . With the power of new technology combined with unique vision , they have become the leaders of change and progress . New York City is home to many of the world 's largest and trendiest tech companies like Facebook , Etsy , and Uber . Less known are the startups that pave the way for innovation . These ten founders over 40 continue to reimagine new frontiers and put their mark on NYC and the world . Joseph Lubin , 52 years old , is both the founder of Consensys and cofounder of Ethereum , the blockchain computing platform that 's been setting the world all abuzz in recent news . Joseph 's career has involved various posts in the fields of technology and finance and in their intersection .   Joe was interested in getting into the digital currency space but did n't see opportunities . At the end of 2013 , he connected with Vitalik Buterin , the creator of Ethereum . Joe was impressed and saw the future with changes on the scale of internet . This is what lit the spark which created Consensys , a Brooklyn - based software studio building decentralized applications and one of the largest and fastest growing companies in blockchain . " Bitcoin is more of a currency , while Ethereum allows for a much greater flexibility in terms of development and adaption on its code , " said Lubin . Consensys has grown from four people two years ago to over 150 people today . Half of the staff does consulting for the enterprise , while the other half develops decentralized apps . Blockchain , especially with Ethereum 's lead , is a very new field that could transform almost every industry , enterprise , financial , legal , health , insurance , money transfer , marketplaces , compliance , government infrastructure , and more .   At 46 years old , Marc Cenedella is the founder and CEO of Ladders Inc. , a company that has transformed the way job candidates and recruiters connect online . Marc is New York City born and worked as the Senior Vice President of Hot Jobs back in the days of the 90 's Web 1.0 .   After leaving Hot Jobs in 2002 , he started his own company the following year , Ladders , with the aim of helping real professionals with the challenging job search process to come out in the high .   " NYC creates a tremendous center of gravity and talent " Marc says . " There 's too much information to sift through and LinkedIn and Indeed are not working for higher level professionals . Ladders focuses on the higher end of the spectrum , using technology to find real opportunities for users , which leverages growth . " Ladders has become the leading professional site with over 10 million active job postings on the system and is a nationally renowned leader on job search , career management , recruiting , and business . The company has been recognized as one of the " Best Companies to Work for in New York " and the " Most Valuable Startup in New York " by Silicon Alley Insider .   CEO and cofounder of MOSH , Elizabeth Aris , is a prime example of the New York " get it done " attitude . MOSH was founded in January 2015 with the vision of connecting brands to their customers , to engage with them and share content gathering detailed customer data , with the purpose to monetize these relationships .   " Every industry is trying to understand how to go digital but you ca n't do that if you do n't have a platform that allows you to have an effective digital relationship with your customer , " said Aris . " So that is why we built MOSH . " Elizabeth has led two businesses of $ 700 M and $ 1B + and grown them at around 13% pa consistently for 10 quarters straight , 3x the company growth rate . Then she had the idea for MOSH with a colleague in Australia but could n't raise seed funding so she packed up everything and moved to NYC with just an idea . MOSH was originally bootstrapped before undergoing two rounds with private investors . They had to develop a network , raise capital , build the technology , launch and operate the business , all from scratch . Now , traffic to the platform has doubled for 8 months in a row , new brands are signing up and there is a wide range of content on the platform from words , pics , video of any length , live stream , podcasts , digital magazines , even VR . Alan Cutter is the self funded founder of Lions Eye Group , a startup focused on innovation in hiring . He has used technology to simplify the pre - hiring process , helping traction - less companies solve a major need in the marketplace , since hiring is too inconsistent .   Lions Eye bridges the gap between skill set and hiring , tapping into a network that normally would n't be reachable , particularly in the startup world . " We 've had the privilege of placing and growing executives that drive the heart of the New York tech and advertising industries , " said Cutter . Lionseye Group partners with innovative companies across the digital native ecosystem . Search mandates span functional areas at the VP level and higher in Sales , Business Development , Marketing , Product , Human Resources , Technology , and Operations . Alex Coon , a 42 year old entrepreneur and the founder of Piper Crane , has changed the real estate industry for the better . He raised seed funds with VCs and has seen an overwhelmingly positive response , even shutting down some outreach .   Alex is seasoned in the industry , with 16 years in the real estate business , and understands the need for order and organization for real estate agents . " The internet has disrupted traditional real estate . The industry is transforming , and has a lot of potential . What it means to be a broker is shifting , so we 've focused on a team based model , " said Coon . Piper Crane takes underutilized talent and energy and creates skilled support agents to serve the industry . They have supported $ 4B+ of sales and of 20K+ transactions . They have a proven track record of building tech - enabled agent support and customer satisfaction solutions . Karen Cahn , 42 years old , launched iFundWomen , a boot strapped , crowdfunding platform for women - led businesses with a pay - it- forward model in November 2016 , with a commitment to support women in their journey to raise the critical funds needed to start and grow their businesses .   Her company partners with a diverse group of entrepreneurs that apply to be featured on the platform , offering one - on - one crowdfunding coaching and video - production services for those entrepreneurs who need a partner in helping them succeed . " I am an entrepreneur and have personally seen how crowdfunding can have a transformative impact on early stage businesses , " said Cahn . " Crowdfunding can save startups a lot of time and agony trying to figure out if their product is worth all of the self - sacrifice they are putting into it ! " There is a lot of demand for the product , so iFundWomen is currently scaling their operations to support as many entrepreneurs as possible . Karen spent most of her career in the digital and tech space having worked with AOL , YouTube , and Google , where she became aware of gender biases in the digital / tech sector . Karen 's company has been recognized in national media outlets like CNBC , Business Insider , Forbes and more . Adina Levin started Collab along with her husband Marc , with the goal of creating a micro - community that could act as a support system against the challenges of being a freelancer where people can share equipment , tools , and ideas .   From its inception in 2009 , the bootstrapped startup has grown into a force for innovation and has also incubated companies . Collab has incubated and mentored more than 10 companies that now have a combined valuation in excess of $ 200 million , creating more than 250 new jobs . " Curate a community and connect them with fabrication equipment , a wood shop , a large open communal space to test , prototype , and assemble in , and near unlimited possibilities become achievable , " said Levin . " What we want to do now is test our theories on a larger scale . We want to create a huge imagineering factory with tools , equipment , huge open spaces to build large installations , manufacture , host groups . Literally , a place where anything we imagine doing , we can attempt . " Adina plans on building out a 40 - 50 K space with enough equipment and resources to service every aspect of the creative economy . She wants to continue to help startups , and partner with nonprofits to facilitate dynamic partnerships , combining for - profit and nonprofit initiatives and missions under one roof that can support one another as a virtuous circle . Eric Friedman , 46 years old , is the founder and CEO of eSkill , which remains the only skills testing company that lets clients easily customize skills tests to match the multiple skill requirements of a given job or training objective . Such job - tailored tests are more accurate than off - the - shelf tests , and also more legally defensible when they can be shown to be job - relevant .   " I met my original cofounder in 2001 , a senior software architect who hired technical people from around the world to staff large IT projects . He foresaw the need for a skills testing product that could mass - customize skills tests to fit the various technical roles he had to fill quickly and accurately from large pools of candidates . " With eSkill , it 's been a long , slow climb from an unfunded startup in 2003 to where they are today . eSkill has companies such as Coca - Cola , Home Depot , ADP , the US State Dept , LG , Staples , GE , and 1 - 800-Contacts among their over 1,000 organizational clients . Eric led eSkill to this stage with virtually no outside money . Babak Pasdar , the 48 year old founder of Bat Blue Networks , is a New York - based entrepreneur . Bat Blue , founded in 2007 , delivers uniform and consistent security across all distributed organizational platforms that can just be turned on , instead of built out . This means that organizations have consistent security across all the disparate silos .   The security options available to organizations were expensive , complex , and required too much investment in static technologies . They 're distributed across very different compute and storage silos like offices , data centers , cloud instances , and SaaS application , yet available security options were granularly silo centric . " My team and I saw this as an opportunity to address a meaningful market problem by consolidating all the disparate islands of security into a single unified platform . Initially we had to create everything from scratch , " said Pasdar . Pasdar funded his startup idea by consulting . When he had proven his platform was worthy of investment by bringing on customers like ESPN , Tumblr , SoundCloud and a host of SMBs with a few million in revenues , the VCs started to buy in . Numaan Akram , the 40 year old founder of Rally , has reinvented bus transportation . Numaan created Rally as a response to a grassroots rally in DC , and personally built a website allowing social aggregation of trips . He conceived and developed " DC Rally Bus , " which helped people self - aggregate and create trips from their town to the " Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear " ; ultimately delivering 5,000 from 50 different cities across 20 states to Washington , DC on the day of the event .   Since then , he 's continued to develop his startup by integrating new concepts and cultivated new partnerships through consulting . Numaan believes in creating community mobility through crowdfunded transportation , since over 4,000 bus companies make up the industry and are currently underutilized . He is proud to have organized the Women 's March on Washington , having signed up 30,000 people from over 100 cities in 20 states , the largest bus event in history .   Read more about startup founders over 40 here on Tech . Co