In an age where terms such as Artificial Intelligence , Machine Learning , Big Data , Lean , BlockChain and others are constantly being referred to , I feel compelled to think that these are little more than artificial clutches people use , many times without fully understanding them . This is a startup world which is increasingly becoming augmented but not fully real . Not being the first addressing this challenge , I do believe that some entrepreneurs are now abandoning their tech bubble , leaving a fully virtual reality that had nothing to do with the world problems and moving towards a more accurate understanding of the planet and its workings . This said , they are still being targeted by countless snippets of information that shake the grounds of reality . Why is this so ? Who perpetuates it ? There is a new economy around the startup world . A world packed with pseud specialists , inexperienced gurus , untrained coaches , throttle - less accelerators , anaemic incubators and untrained VCs . Be very careful when reaching out to any of these . This decision will probably be responsible for how well your startup will head into the future , and if 80% of startups die within 18 months and on the following 18 half of the survivors cease to exist , this means that even choosing well does not assure success . If you choose badly ... Because most of these coaches and specialists come from the tech bubble as well , they pass on information they feel is reliable and important , the same way teachers from top MBAs keep teaching the same strategies that led the market to collapse . General education and business coaching has to radically change . The world is changing at an ever growing pace and taking us to face brand new challenges in rapid succession and for which past history will not always be a good advisor for . A good coach or specialist is one who knows this . These are the ones who almost seem to be learning from you given all the questions they present . These are the ones who are focusing on adapting their experience to the changes happening before our very eyes . These are the ones who have many years of hands - on experience and understand we need to constantly ask , listening and understanding being the most important , in order to adapt to the new ever changing and non - linear reality . So , what should one have in mind when choosing them ? The accelerators : Nowadays there are many accelerators . Every city with over 10 people has an accelerator . Most of them take big chunks of equity in exchange of 2 square meters , a table , a chair , and a vague promise you will be coached ( by some local " specialist " - see below ) and have access to an incredible network of investors . After 3 months you go home poorly coached , with no investor interested and with a new venture partner ; the accelerator who will keep the 10 or 15% . It is good business , but not for startups nor founders . The specialists : People introducing themselves as specialists do so due to one simple fact ; the market does not recognise them as such . What is a specialist ? Someone who is highly professional at something ? That is being a " professional " . Is it being better than the average ? How many specialists can there be in the world ? ( revert to " accelerators " ) . Question the " specialist " about what he did in the past and results he achieved ... and double check that . The coaches : Be careful with these . One recent example I observed : An entrepreneur joined a program and a " superstar coach " walked in the room , introduced himself and , throughout 45min spoke about how to 's . How to build business models , how to do LeanStartup ... and did not ask anything about what was done in the past , which results were achieved and which test were ran . Unfortunately this happens more often than not . The result is , an absolute waste of time for the entrepreneur while the " coach " is talking to himself . The gurus : Even scarier than self - proclaimed " specialists " are the self - entitled gurus . This usually works within groups of interest . Every local market tends to have a couple of accelerators that have access to the best " specialists " , the strongest " network " and a handful of " gurus " . If a market does not have these 4 , it will not be considered a start up market . With that in mind , marketing tends to create such figures . Always do a background check on the people who will be working and advising you . The business angels : Business angels are the main catalyst in areas with small presence of VC funds , meaning , most of the world . Still , one needs to be ever watchful . Business angels tend to be expensive money . Be sure that he has more to bring to the table than just the money . A true business angel will support the development of your company and gives you access to his / her network . An entrepreneur should not shy away from requiring support . External guidance is very important - because if not for anything else , it will look at data and challenges without the heart clouding its judgement . Embrace the help of those who can really help . Do n't accept support just because . Be clear regarding what kind of external input you require and be sure you are getting it from the best . Accepting the support of someone who is not good is highly damaging and life threatening . Be as thorough choosing who you work with as the main VCs are in choosing who to invest in .