Mercedes ' at - home battery . Mercedes - BenzMercedes - Benz is taking a direct shot at Tesla 's solar push and battery business . The luxury carmaker announced on Thursday it would partner with Vivint Solar to sell a smart solar ecosystem to California residents , aiming to challenge Tesla 's new solar - roof rollout on its turf . As part of the partnership , Mercedes will introduce its at - home battery to the US market for the first time , while Vivint will provide solar - panel installation . The solar installer also is expected to provide a smart - home experience -- Vivint Solar announced a partnership with Vivint Smart Home at the Consumer Electronics Show in January that would allow the company to use sensors and artificial intelligence to manage energy loads automatically . The move is the latest in the solar industry 's progression , started by Tesla CEO Elon Musk , of rolling battery and solar installations into one process . Rechargeable batteries are necessary for storing the electricity generated by solar panels that can be used during peak grid times . But before Tesla 's acquisition of SolarCity in November , battery and solar installations were separate processes . " We see this as an evolving appetite that consumers are asking us to bring to them , " Vivint Solar CEO David Bywater told Business Insider . Mercedes ' vision of an integrated home that includes its at - home battery and electric car . Mercedes - Benz Mercedes introduced its standing battery in Germany in April 2016 , but it has since expanded to the United Kingdom and South Africa . The device , manufactured at the Mercedes subsidiary Deutsche ACCUmotive , can store 2.5 kilowatt - hours of energy but could be combined to store up to 20 kWh . The full cost , with installation , would range from under $ 5,000 to $ 13,000 for a 20 kWh system . That does compete with the price of Tesla 's battery , but there 's a catch . Tesla 's Powerwall 2 , which stores 14 kWh of energy , can cost as much as $ 11,450 including installation . Although it stores slightly less energy than Mercedes ' full system , you would need only one Powerwall unit instead of several Mercedes batteries . Those looking to save space may opt for the Powerwall 2 , which can be mounted on a wall . For reference , a US residential home used 901 kWh of electricity a month on average in 2015 , according to the US Energy Information Administration . But Boris von Bormann , CEO of Mercedes ' energy division , said there was plenty of room in the market for multiple players and that Mercedes has an edge when it comes to quality . Mercedes is " not a startup . It 's not a stock - value - driven company with some velocity behind it that can go one way or another , " von Bormann said . " It 's really a mature company that will be there -- and will be there for the foreseeable future . That way , you feel trusted and have a quality brand where you get support whenever you need it . " Tesla 's Powerwall 2.TeslaTesla has taken some heat for its stock valuation that has matched the levels of Ford and General Motors despite selling a fraction of the vehicles . Tesla is looking to improve solar adoption by offering more aesthetically appealing solar shingles , which the company began selling this month . Both Tesla and Mercedes see at - home batteries as an extension of their electric - car plans . Musk made that much clear at his initial solar - roof unveiling , where he discussed how a solar push would allow for the full integration of Tesla products : a Powerwall that both stores solar energy and juices up your Tesla electric car . " We 're not just looking at energy storage as a pure storage play , but looking strongly at it from an electric - vehicle perspective , as well with the expansion of Daimler into EVs , " von Bormann said . For now , Mercedes will leverage its partnership with Vivint to roll out its battery in California , but it could expand to other states based on consumer interest . Mercedes says it is also interested in exploring markets like China and Australia . Get the latest Tesla stock price here .