While other 11 year old boys were firing up the latest ' Call of Duty ' game , Queenslander Taj Pabari was imagining something that would years later mould into a globally - scaling business . For those who haven't heard the name before , Taj Pabari is the founder of FiftySix Creations , a social enterprise startup focused on educating and encouraging the young innovators of the future through hands - on workshops and a built - it - yourself tablet kit . Today , FiftySix Creations reaches more than 40,000 kids in both urban and regional locations across Australia , with the business also offering its educational workshops to disadvantaged communities both domestically and internationally . Pabari was set to speak about FiftySix and the importance of creativity for kids today at the inaugural Myriad festival in Brisbane , however nature unfortunately interfered , washing out the first afternoon . Catching up with him ahead of the event , Pabari had said he was excited to speak about the importance of developing young entrepreneurs to the crowd , and took the time to discuss his personal journey toward founding FiftySix . " I was not a good kid , which is probably the best way of putting it , " Pabari laughed . " I was n't hugely academically focused or really keen on sports either . So I looked into what things that I liked doing and I found that I enjoyed changing things . " Pabari 's shift ' From Suspended Schoolboy to Teenage Entrepreneur ' - the title of a TedX talk he gave last year - and the switch from pranks to product is an interesting one . It all kicked off when the young entrepreneur decided he wanted to enter the Startup Weekend competition held on the Gold Coast at 11 . " It was five in the afternoon , straight after school . One day I just told my parents , hey can I go to the Gold Coast for this thing called Startup Weekend , " said Pabari . Pitching at the event , Pabari said he originally imagined selling built - it tablet kits at only $ 50 each . " I knew nothing about it really , just that I wanted to do it . I did n't win the Startup Weekend but I did end up raising . I also learnt a lot about manufacturing , startup a business , pitching and developing an idea , " Pabari said . Pabari continued to develop his idea throughout his schooling before officially founding the business and the ImaginTech tablet kit in 2014 , an experience which he described as " irritating " despite the fact that he " loved " it . The young founder said he would often meet with his team in the early hours of the morning to discuss the business and make operational plans for the day , then head to school for an 8 am start . Pabari said jokingly , " Going through school ended up being more like going through business with school on the side , rather than the other way around . " It taught me how to deal with people across a variety of different backgrounds and others that I maybe did n't want to be around . It was actually some of the customers my business was targeting that were really teaching me , and I think that was really powerful in understand what I was doing . " Following years of development , FiftySix 's ImaginTech entered the market as a Lego - style building kit for tablets . There are two varieties of tablet - building kits available : the ' One Kit ' is priced at $ 200 , while the advanced ' Classic ' kit comes at $ 300 with higher specifications . Both packages come with front and rear facing cameras , speakers , GPS , Wi - Fi and Bluetooth in addition to all the expected tablet - esque hardware pieces . For every tablet the business sells , Pabari said FiftySix will donate one tablet to a disadvantaged community , in an effort to promote creativity across all scopes of society . When providing tablets is n't " applicable " to a certain area , Pabari said the startup will instead conduct one of FixftySix 's workshops to help teach kids about " productivity , about building something , about business , and about social enterprise " . " We travel to regional communities , both domestically and internationally , so places like Nepal , and often reach out to a lot of Indigenous communities to provide them with opportunities too , " Pabari added . " It 's meant to be something to show them , you know what , I can build something too , and get them excited about entrepreneurship . " Since its inception , the business has conducted a number of global workshops , having partnered with big Australian tech names like MYOB to travel to rural communities in countries such as China . For those out of reach , the startup also has a " collaboration of ideas " space on its online platform , a space where kids can share their ideas with each other , collaborate , and eventually work towards commercialising them . Now graduated from high school , Pabari said he 's been hopping back - and - forth between Brisbane and New York as he looks to properly expand his business into international markets . " We 're always going to be an Australian - based company , but hey , we are a social enterprise and we could be reaching a global market and supporting kids everywhere . "