After striking a last - minute deal with the three Nick Xenophon Team ( NXT ) senators on Friday evening , the government saw a number of the tax cuts for businesses proposed in its 2016 Budget passed by the Senate . A company tax cut will have companies with an annual turnover of up to $ 10 million pay tax at a rate of 27.5 percent , a reduction of 2.5 percent for the current financial year . As of the 2017 - 18 financial year the drop will be extended to companies turning over up to $ 25 million , and to those turning over up to $ 50 million in the 2018 - 19 financial year . The government 's full 10 year plan would see the lower rate applied to all corporate tax entities by the 2023 - 24 financial year , and further reduced in stages to 25 percent for all entities by the 2026 - 27 financial year . In a joint media release , Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull , Treasurer Scott Morrison , and Finance Minister Matthias Cormann said , " Company tax is a tax on workers , a tax on jobs and a tax on wages ... this reform will deliver jobs and increase wages . It is an excellent outcome for Australian workers and their families . " It 's estimated that 870,000 Australian companies with a turnover of less than $ 10 million , employing 3.4 million people , will benefit from the cuts , with 10,000 more to benefit when the cuts are extended to those turning over up to $ 50 million . The cuts were agreed upon by NXT 's senators in exchange for a range of concessions around energy prices , including one - off payments to pensioners to help them pay their electricity bills . The government has also agreed to look at other measures including increasing gas supply , accelerating solar development , and an inquiry from the Productivity Commission . The cuts have had a positive reaction from the business community , with Jennifer Westacott , CEO of the Business Council of Australia , called Friday 's news an " historic step towards rebooting Australia 's international competitiveness and prosperity " . Tim Reed , CEO of MYOB , agreed , " The confirmed changes will encourage small business to invest , take on more employees and grow . It 's a good day for Australian small to medium sized businesses , their employees and the whole community . " Reed believes that , thanks to the cuts , SMEs will be encouraged to grow beyond $ 2 million in revenue . " We hope the Government is able to secure support for its ongoing programme of company tax cuts . The simple fact is that lower corporate taxes across the board would have made Australian business more internationally competitive , " he said . Westacott also warned on Sky News that the two - tier company tax system may see growing businesses look at " doing business planning for tax planning and that 's the main thing " . " You start carving off bits of your business because if we 're going to 25 per cent , it 's quite material , " she said . Looking at startups , Bane Hunter , executive chairman at GetSwift , said , the changes will help enable business growth " at the smaller end of town " . " Tax manoeuvres like this encourage international companies like us to employ more people in Australia than elsewhere . When you are paying tax in more than one country , whether it 's Australia , the US or the UK , tax cuts like this are a strong incentive to build the business more in Australia , " he said . " But ideally , a slightly more aggressive tax cut for smaller companies would be more beneficial . Small companies have the highest potential for failure , but at the same time have the highest potential for strong and sustained job creation . More importantly , they are a critical element of a well - functioning business community . " The Opposition , which has opposed tax cuts for businesses turning over more than $ 2 million , has refused to disclose whether it will repeal the cuts if it wins the next election , leading to the government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions ( ACTU ) today calling on the ALP to make its position known . The tax cuts and discussion around jobs and wages growths comes after the Opposition won support from Senate cross benchers last week to pass a bill preventing cuts to Sunday penalty rates . With the bill being introduced into the Senate , it will now head to the House of Representatives .