The Paris - based startup Cubyn announces today a partnership with global e - commerce and internet services giant PriceMinister ( part of Rakuten group ) , allowing over 5,000 merchants in France to tap into Cubyn 's easy on - demand logistics platform . The partnership lays the foundation for Cubyn 's internationalization to new markets in Europe and globally , with a UK launch planned within the next 6 months . Cubyn offers on - demand logistics to online businesses , picking up its customers ' items on - site , packaging them and shipping them to any destination globally . Merchants can easily create tailored shipment requests on Cubyn 's platform , e - commerce module or API , and schedule a pick up within a two hour window . They can then track their order , from warehouse , to wrapping , to shipping and delivery . Adrien Fernandez - Baca , the founder and CEO of Cubyn stated : " The partnership with PriceMinister will accelerate Cubyn 's growth and help scale the business internationally . Cubyn 's vision is to allow any merchant to easily ship their products without worrying about logistics or transport , independent of their size or the type of items they sell . We 're excited to work with PriceMinister to further level the playing field for thousands of merchants in France and soon internationally . Today 's news is a huge mark of credibility for Cubyn and we ca n't wait to roll out our technology to more markets soon . " According to the young company , Cubyn has seen 300% growth year on year between 2015 and 2016 . Cubyn processed well over 200,000 shipments in 2016 , with an exponential peak in December 2016 , where the business shipped more items in a two week period than over the entire course of 2015 , proving its readiness for growth , and its ability to absorb high levels of requests . Olivier Mathiot , Co - Founder and President at PriceMinister stated : " Impeccable logistics are a key component of growth , and especially crucial to small and medium businesses . From today , thousands of PriceMinister merchants can focus on their sales and leave the logistics with Cubyn . Cubyn 's logistics is fully scalable , and they 've proved that they can absorb and process requests from thousands of additional merchants in France . " The on - demand logistics platform Cubyn was founded in 2014 and received EUR1.1 million in a seed funding round with 360 Capital Partners , Partech Ventures , Price Minister 's Olivier Mathiot , and Showroomprive Founder and CEO Thierry Petit in February 2016 . Cubyn picks your orders , packs them with care / love and ships them all over the world for you .