startup pitches . Company : Fellow . Headquarters : San Francisco , CA . Founding team : Jake Miller , Founder . Why we like it : Fellow makes products that are , frankly , worthy of being labelled coffee - porn . They are currently raising money in a Kickstarter for the Stagg EKG , an electric pour - over kettle " for coffee lovers " . At StartUp Beat -- we 've discussed it -- we would sell our own grandmothers just to get hold of one . Maybe the rest of our families , too . The team at fellow self - describe as " a handful of nerds in love with coffee and obsessed with product design " . The San Francisco based startup ( original , not , but we 'll let them off ) has released a number of frankly beautiful looking products . The first was a new take on the classic French Press , but the latest -- as featured on Product Hunt ( we up - voted immediately ) -- is a new pour over kettle that is geared up to the teeth with tech . Ok , so at $ 110 it is a * bit * pricey for a device that heats water . But then , if you love coffee , caffeine and design , you 're going to buy it . Even if you know you could put that money towards a car , house or something super sensible , like a pension . We do n't curse much on StartUp Beat but , we have to say , this is a fucking beautiful peace of kit . Firstly , it comes with a variable temperature control . Now , by turning the knob , users select their desired temperature ranging from 135degF to 212degF , and Stagg EKG does the rest . All the information is then displayed on an LCD screen . Once the temperature has been reached , it can be kept at the same temperature for up to 30 minutes . The Staff EKG+ has all of these features , yet can also let you know VIA BLUETOOTH when your water is ready for some aesthetically pleasing pour - over - action with its Brewbar Tablet App . Basically , we want one . However , with the office based in Colombia , and the fact that -- at present -- Fellow only ship in North America , it looks like we are going to be waiting a hell of a time to get our hands on one . Back to Nespresso for now .