Splend , a company which hires out cars to those wanting to join the ranks of rideshare drivers , has announced it has received backing from Investec Australia . The funding , the amount of which was not officially disclosed but pegged by the AFR as $ 2.8 million for a 10 percent stake , will go towards growing the company 's operations , with Splend looking to up benefits for members and expanding its range of vehicles . Since its launch early last year with a focus on Uber drivers , Splend reports that it has supplied vehicles to over 2000 members . As well as providing members with cars , the startup pairs them with a coach to give them tips on how to succeed on rideshare platforms . Chris King , founder and CEO of Splend , said the strategic investment came as Splend saw Investec having a strong understanding of the business and its strategy . " We saw Investec as a like - minded capital partner and trusted adviser to support our mission of helping our members become the most profitable and safest on - demand drivers on the road , " he said . David Phillips , head of Investec 's emerging companies business , said the firm was attracted to the opportunity to invest in a " new economy business which provides the platform , and the essential tools for the growing rideshare industry " . Investec has been working with a number of startups through its backing of the H2 Ventures accelerator , a fintech - focused program . The firm invested in the program last year , and earlier this year provided H2 Ventures with a $ 4 million loan , with a guarantee from the NSW Government , to help further expand the accelerator . The investment into Splend comes the number of rideshare services continues to grow as state governments around Australia begin to regulate the space ; as well as Uber , of course , which is now active across most major cities and a number of regional areas , the Australian market has GoCatch , as well as newer players Hop and female - only Shebah . On - demand drivers are also , well , in demand for growing services such as food delivery .   Splend was first launched as King saw an opportunity to fill the gap left by Uber 's car policy , which states that cars used by drivers on its UberX service must be less than nine years old . With similar rules applying for other platforms , and rideshare passengers now coming to expect rides in newer vehicles , Splend has grown . Splend works by having members pay a joining fee and then a weekly fee to cover the cost of the car , insurance , and servicing , with members able to join on rent - to - own plans .   There is , of course , the question of what will happen to Splend if or when autonomous vehicles make their way into the mainstream ; Uber has made no secret of the fact it sees its future as driver - free . In the meantime , however , Splend will look to expand further across Australia , with an eye on opportunities in New Zealand and North America .