Minimally invasive surgery tends to be a highly expensive procedure , but Cambridge Medical Robotics is developing a next - generation robotic system that could make it affordable and universally accessible . The startup has already successfully tested the performance of the platform on cadavers . The big plans have already attracted big backing . In July 2016 , the company raised $ 20.3 million in a Series A funding round from investors including ABB Technology Ventures , LGT Global Invest and Cambridge Innovation Capital . London - based startup Automata was founded in January 2015 to democratise robotics by lowering costs and improving usability . The company plans to use a robotics - as - a - service ( RAAS ) business model to integrate robotics into existing workflows more efficiently and to bring automation to new markets . Automata has attracted an undisclosed quantity of funding from ABB Technology Ventures ( ATV ) . Founders Mostafa El Sayed and Suryansh Chandra previously worked as lead designers at Zaha Hadid Architecture , and their first product should be a welcome one in their former profession . The low - cost , plug and play , table - top robotic arm called Eva is ideally suited for design studios , but has been developed to also work in SMEs from a myriad of other industries . University of Sheffield spin - out Consequential Robotics was established to develop companion and assistive robotic systems to enhance quality of life as people age . The first product developed by the startup is a mechanical pet with dog - like features called MiRO that is said to be " the first robot that thinks like an animal " . MiRo is controlled by technology modelled on the biological brain , and a limited number are currently available to professional researchers for PS1,900 plus tax and shipping . Iconic British designer Sebastian Conran teamed up with the university 's Professor Tony Prescott and Dr Ben Mitchinson to found the company in 2016 . The research was supported by Innovate UK and it 's received funding as part of an EU project . Ai Build wants to develop robotic technologies to support 3D printing in the built environment . The London startup was born in November 2015 and attracted PS75,000 of seed funding from Seedcamp the next year . Founder Daghan Cam envisions a future of construction in which industrial robotics and machine learning automate fabrication processes and help make large - scale 3D printing affordable . Last October the company unveiled the Daedalus Pavilion to showcase the technology 's potential . The 5 m high and 4.5 m wide structure was built using a customised KUKA robotic arm and a 3D printing gun . Bristol - based Reach Robotics is developing monster robots controlled by mobile devices to use with video games . The company has created more than thirty prototypes since it was launched in 2014 , but the first design to be released commercially is MekaMon .   The customisable machines are designed to let players engage in combat through augmented reality gaming and are currently available from $ 275 ( PS224 ) .   Reach Robotics has secured a disclosed total of $ 250,000 ( PS200,575 ) in seed funding so far from seven different investors . Open Bionics designs 3D - printed bionic hands for amputees using medical grade materials . The open source initiative produces devices that are easily reproduced using off - the - shelf materials and teamed up with Disney in 2015 to create a superhero - themed range of prosthetics for children .   The company has received a total of $ 120,000 ( PS96,270 ) equity funding and $ 20,000 ( PS16,045 ) seed funding . In February it added $ 1 million ( PS802,100 ) in prize money after beating more than 1,000 other entrants to the International UAE Robotics for Good Award . The winnings will be used to push the product through the final stages of medical testing before it can be made available to everyone who needs it . Oxfordshire startup Animal Dynamics emerged as a spinout company from the Department of Zoology at Oxford University that builds bio - inspired vehicles using deep science to understand naturally - evolved designs . The team are working to develop a portfolio of products based on research into flight , swimming and walking in the natural world . The company was co - founded by biomechanics professor Dr Adrian Thomas and entrepreneur Alex Cacciain in 2015 , and has attracted seed funding from angel investors Oxford Technology and the University of Oxford Isis Fund ( UOIF ) to build and test its first products and an undisclosed amount of Series A funding . The creators of Moley Robotics claim to have designed the world 's first robotic kitchen . The automated chef is operated by a smartphone and combines the standard kitchen equipment of oven , hob and sink with the unusual addition of two dexterous robotic arms that take care of the cooking . The company has raised a total of $ 1.17 million ( PS939,000 ) in equity crowdfunding since it was founded in 2014 . A prototype of the device won the " Best of the Best " award at the Consumer Electronics Show ( CES ) in Shanghai the next year , and a consumer version is set to launch sometime in 2017 , supported by an iTunes - style library of different recipes . Primo Toys are designed to help children learn , play and create with technology . Their first release is a wooden robot called Cubetto that helps teach young children how to code through tactile learning . Cubetto is placed atop a map on a floor mat and the child puts coloured blocks on a board that tell the smiling robot where to go .   The company was founded in 2013 by Matteo Loglio and Filippo Yacob to help kids become creators of technology rather than just consumers . They 've attracted a total of $ 1.18 million ( PS950,000 ) in funding so far , from investors including Randi Zuckerberg , the sister of Facebook founder Mark . Cubetto is currently available to buy for $ 225 ( PS180 ) .   London - based startup Emotech has designed what it bills as " the first personal robot with individual personality . " The deep - learning capabilities of the voice - controlled device known as " Olly " let it adapt to the personality of its user over time through daily interactions . The technology won the creators four different CES Innovation Awards in 2017 . The robotics startup was founded in August 2014 to explore ways of improving the relationships between people and technology and has already secured $ 10 million ( PS8 million ) of Series A funding from Alliance Capital and Lightning Capital , plus an undisclosed amount of angel funding . Serial entrepreneur Tom Lipinski developed Q - Bot after he uncovered a problem with laying floor insulation in older homes while working on a previous project aimed at reducing domestic energy use . Q - Bot is his solution . The tiny four - wheeled robot is inserted through an air vent armed with a 3D scanner and insulating foam to survey the underside of floorboards and apply insulation as required . Q - Bot was founded in 2012 and won best startup at the Invention and Entrepreneurship in Robotics and Automation Awards in Seattle in 2015 . The system has been trialled with clients including Camden Council and CityWest Homes , and the company claims it can save between PS200 and PS300 a year in energy bills . A total of PS2 million has been invested in Q - Bot from the EU Horizon 2020 Programme and two rounds of seed funding . Starship Technologies develops small self - driving robots designed to deliver goods locally within 30 minutes . The electric six - wheeled personal couriers drive on pavements at a pedestrian speed of four miles per hour to the location of the customer who then unlock the delivery using their personal code . The startup is headquartered in London but its engineering operations are based in Estonia . Skype co - founders Janus Friis and Ahti Heinla created the company in 2015 and have gained $ 17.2 million ( PS13.8 million ) of funding from eight investors including HOF Capital and Playfair Capital . Dr Alexander Enoch developed his idea for Robotical while working with bulky machines during his PhD in Robotics studies at the University of Edinburgh . The compact bipedal robot called Marty harnesses the power of play to teach computer skills to children by letting them reprogramme the device and customise its 3D - printed parts . The company has received funding from the the Royal Academy of Engineering 's Enterprise Hub and more than PS86,000 on a crowdfunding platform . Marty is currently available at a special pre - order price of PS99 plus shipping .