As Australia continues to house thousands of asylum seekers in offshore processing camps , a report examining the existing and potential contribution of refugee entrepreneurs to the nation 's economy and society has determined that , with the right support , refugee entrepreneurs provide significant economic benefits to Australia . The report , Refugee to Entrepreneur in Three Years , was prepared by Professor Jock Collins of the UTS Business School , who studied the workings of the pilot Ignite Small Business Startups Program run by Settlement Services International ( SSI ) . Taking off in 2013 , the program helped facilitate business creation by connecting entrepreneurs to business mentors and a team of volunteers from local businesses , councils , chambers of commerce , and others to share their business knowledge and skills . Having now wrapped up its three year pilot , the program has worked with 240 refugee clients and helped establish 66 new businesses . The report found that 68 percent of refugee graduates of the program have moved off Centrelink payments - through interviews with 35 participants , the report identified savings of almost $ 900,000 a year in Centrelink benefits - with some now paying company tax and employing others . " This success rate must be set against the substantial barriers that these refugees faced in order to appreciate its significance , " Collins said . " At first glance refugees are the most unlikely entrepreneurs . They lack capital to start up a business , they have no credit history , no assets or security . In many instances their educational qualifications are not recognised and they have no social networks . " The report also found that one in five Ignite clients are women , with women making up one in four of the Ignite clients who succeeded in setting up a business . " This is an important finding because many refugee families who arrive in Australia are single - parent families headed by a woman , " Collins said . Thirty countries were represented in the pilot program , with 87 participants coming from Iran , 34 from Iraq , and 23 from Syria . Retail businesses were the most popular created , followed by cultural and recreational services , and construction . The release of the report comes after the TechfugeesBNE hackathon at River City Labs last weekend , which saw teams work with refugees who had resettled in Queensland to come up with solutions to problems facing the community . Founded in Europe , Techfugees first came to Australia in 2015 . Taking out first prize was ' Team Hand Sanitiser ' with its idea for Springboard , an app matching refugees with industry - specific mentors to help them find work . The Springboard app is powered by an algorithm connecting a mentee 's goals , interests , and needs to a mentor 's experience , interests , and strengths to ensure compatibility . A user seeking mentorship would sign up to the app for free , while a volunteer mentor would receive verified mentor training and certification for a $ 50 fee . Hackathon judge Imtiaz Ali , who let Pakistan for Australia by boat in 2012 , said the Springboard app can help people like himself make a direct connection with a mentor who could help them through challenges to get a job . " No one will employ ' Imtiaz ' when they see my name on a job application . It 's not ' John ' or ' David ' so my chances of getting a job is very low . This is very frustrating but that is the reality , " Ali said . Winning $ 1,000 and membership at River City Labs , Team Hand Sanitiser will look to develop and make Springboard a reality . Taking second place was Team Let 's Talk , who created an accent reduction solution , while Big Box Orange took out third with a Google cardboard 3D experience for refugees .