These days , customers want to be educated and influenced through impartial input . At my consulting firm focused on finding ways to generate new clients , we 've moved beyond the traditional sales model . The consumer is profoundly more educated when entering a business conversation than they 've ever been before . However , only 27 percent of all inbound leads are actually sales qualified . This means that nearly three out of four leads are the wrong fit for a sales deal . This can happen because most of the people who take initial meetings are not final decision - makers , but are rather influencers in the buying process . There 's also often a gap in the information that influencers need to escalate the sale . These influencers do n't have all the facts , and are simply trying to streamline the process for the end - buyer . In order for us as salespeople to become the most knowledgeable source in the buyer journey , we need to be aware of what both B2C and B2B prospects already know . This includes pricing , a basic idea of what we sell , an initial idea on how they might use it , and an understanding of competing services . We also must be aware of what they want to learn . This includes the macro - level business value gained from the product , how to properly implement the product , and who we are as a vendor . Instead of talking about how your product will help a buyer 's business , identify trends surrounding the industry and the impact they have on their business . A lot of companies use internal thought leadership in their pitch , but more often than not , they forget to use relevant third party data to tie industry trends to their solutions . The Challenger Sale does a good job of explaining this kind of selling : " The ability to deliver unique insight is arguably the most powerful weapon in the Challenger 's arsenal and the biggest driver of B2B customer loyalty . " It 's what we 've called consultative sales for years , but it 's rarely practiced ( or practiced correctly , at least ) . Even before a prospect is presented with a product or service , they should first believe that the issues you solve are important on a macro level . This is a shift for many sales organizations who feel their jobs are to solely pitch the product , and then try to close . Over the years , I have seen that most buyers are not shopping for products that are direct replacements for something they already have . You will overlap with multiple departments and stakeholders , which requires cross - functional selling . Even if you do get your customer excited and move the deal to a certain point , what we see is that because the sales team often does n't inform the buyer involved in the process , they often do n't follow through . While it may be ideal to find a buyer champion who can help you navigate internal structure and politics , in the end , it 's the sales team 's job to help the prospect by telling them who is typically involved by job type , at what stages , and at what level . Talk about a rollout plan and what buyer company teams are required early in the sales process . Stalled deals are primarily caused by prospects not knowing who or what 's required to buy and fully implement the product . If you 're looking to sell to bigger companies , you need to realize that they have very little interest in who your VC is or where you went to school . If they 're a tech company or someone who geeks out over startups , they may care . But as you scale , the companies you partner with are already used to dealing with the big players . They want to know that you have been there and done that with similar clients . So , when you talk about who you are , mention your role in their industry , how you 've helped clients of their size , and how you align with their sphere of influence . You will see a large improvement in how they view and react to your sales conversation . The buyer wants to see who you really are . But more importantly , they want to see themselves in the mirror when talking about your clients . As transparency increases , sales teams will have to further adapt and focus on adding macro - level value while still being able to hold personalized conversations . Sales as we know it is changing , the pitch is evolving , and consumers are gaining more access complete information . How will you handle it ? This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .