The nature of work is changing , and as more employers around the country become accustomed to the idea of outsourcing or hiring a remote worker , the opportunities for Australians living outside the business hubs in our major cities have never been greater . Aiming to help businesses tap into the wealth of expertise hidden around regional Australia is Wagga Wagga startup GoRemote , a jobs platform connecting regionally - based job seekers with employers and recruiters advertising remote roles . Like many an idea , that for GoRemote came to founder Joanna Palmer when she considered her own experiences on both sides of the problem , having been in the past a remote job seeker and an employer posting remote jobs . It came to a head late last year , when she and her partner in Agri Alliance , a business working in sponsorship and event management for the ag industry , realised they had too much work coming in to handle themselves and needed to outsource some of it . " I thought , we have all these amazing friends living in regional areas that are either not working in their field , or not working at all because they 're isolated , so could n't we outsource to them ? " Palmer said . " I had a BBQ in January and was talking about that very concept , thinking , I 've got all these amazing friends with these skills that are n't being utilised , and a friend said , you realise that 's an idea in itself ? I thought , I 'm too busy , I 've got two kids , I have another business , so I did n't want to think about it . " Her friend won out , however , convincing Palmer to take a look at Incubate at 35 Degrees , the incubator program run by Simone Eyles and Dianna Somerville at local coworking space , Working Spaces HQ . " Literally the first time I really wrote down what GoRemote was when I was writing my application for the incubator ; here we are , however many months later , and I 'm live , I 'm happening , " Palmer laughed . " I just thought about me personally ... I've been working remotely for a corporation whose head office is in Sydney for the last three years , so I know how it works and how unreal it can be from the candidate 's point of view , so when we talked about doing it with Agri Alliance , I also knew how productive and functional it is from an employer 's point of view as well . " With this core functionality in mind , Palmer began building a basic MVP . Not coming from a tech background , she went with what she knew , creating a website on Weebly that would simply enable her to capture a candidate 's details and a job posting from employers or recruiters . Currently , a job seeker can submit their CV and personal details through the platform , with GoRemote asking for an annual subscription fee for a profile listing . Palmer calls each candidate after they register , then speaks to their referees ; after this , she creates a profile page for the candidate and puts them on file , essentially . Once a role is advertised that fits the bill , a job advert gets emailed out to everyone that fits the criteria , and they can indicate their interest . GoRemote will then send the employer the candidate 's profile package , and the employer takes it from there . " I 'd love for it be literally like a Tinder - type system , which matches you to roles based on the job parameters you indicate ... but to be honest , how it is at the moment is all I could afford to do . I 'm so new to tech , I thought that creating a platform would n't cost that much , so my ignorance as far as how much time and energy and cost is involved in tech has been a real learning curve for me and a big eye opener , " Palmer admitted . Proving that a solid service serving a real need will overcome the tech barriers , however , Palmer opened up registration two weeks ago and has received over 40 CVs from candidates from around the country , with a couple even coming from overseas - an Australian based in Quebec and another Aussie in Mexico . Contracts have also been signed with a number of employers across a variety of industries , with roles posted already including senior , six - figure salary jobs with an accounting firm , graphic and web design jobs , and postings for remote nurses for a company that conducts house calls and checkups in workplaces . " It 's not for everyone , and it 's not for every industry , but if you 've got CEOs and HR managers that are thinking outside the square , then you 're not restricted anymore to hiring someone that lives in your city or is willing to move there , and that 's unreal , " Palmer said . Palmer 's goal for the platform is for it to become another key avenue for recruiters in particular to find candidates . " I 'd love it if they 're sitting in a meeting with a corporate and they say , this can be done remotely , let 's put it on GoRemote and see who comes out . I think that will drive huge change if they 're planting the seed with the employers at the recruitment level , " she said . With paying customers on board , Palmer is now looking at how to further develop the platform 's backend . " I 've steered away from investment in my head . I think , if I 'm patient enough , in a short amount of time I 'll be able to get the money to be able to build it myself and there 's no strings then , if I want to sell it , I can sell it , " she said . Palmer also does n't want to be beholden to investors ; with her husband a rugby player , she said if he signs a playing contract overseas , she wants to be able to pack the family up to fly and keep her business running herself at the same time - which , after all , is what GoRemote is all about . " I love the flexibility of being able to work remotely and realistically , if we move overseas , I can just do this anyway . It 's more a portability of lifestyle that I 'm after , something family - friendly ... I've got two little girls , and my husband works from home as well , he 's changed as many nappies as me and he hasn't missed any first steps , and I love that this company gives that opportunity to people . It 's huge . "