Slow Wi - Fi signal can leave even the calmest person ready to throw their router out the window . Here 's why your Wi - Fi signal is slow , plus we explain how to speed up your internet connection and boost your Wi - Fi strength and connectivity .   Whether you 're a small business , a startup relying on as home broadband connection or a company with bigger connectivity needs , read on to boost your Wi - Fi connection ...   Additional reporting from Sandro Villinger . First you 've got to establish the actual speed you 're receiving . To do this simply visit a speed testing site , we like Speed Test . From there click begin and it will tell you your upload and download speed . The UK average download speed was around 22.8Mbps last year . The latest Wi - Fi standard is 802.11ac . This standard and the 802.11n are the most desireable for fast connectivity . If your router is either 802.11b or 802.11 g standard a new router would definitely boost your Wi - Fi speed and provide a longer range of connectivity . If you 've been a loyal customer , most internet providers will send you the newest router for free but others may charge a delivery cost of around PS3-PS6 . Here 's how to check what Wi - Fi standard you 're running on : 1 . Click on the Wi - Fi shortcut ( usually found on the bottom right of PC screen ) 2 . Hover your cursor over the broadband service you are using 3 . The standard will be listed next to ' Radio Type ' The day your router is set up , it automatically detects the least crowded channel and makes that its default . However , with the arrival of new neighbors or offices nearby , the situation may change quickly . All of a sudden , one channel may be used by a handful of routers while others are deserted . There are some great tools that will help determine whether you should change Wi - Fi channel . Software like InSSIDer and NirSoft analyses the entire Wi - Fi spectrum and gives you details about your home network as well as channel usage meaning you can change to a less busy channel . Most internet providers will have step - by - step tutorials on how to do this as procedures can differ . The 2.4GHz frequency is crowded . Not just with neighbors using the same frequency , but also baby monitors , cordless phones , microwave ovens and more . Modern 802.11n and 802.11ac routers offer " dualband " , which means they 're sending two network signals ; one at 2.4GHz , and one at 5GHz , which is far less crowded and offers more channels . One drawback is that many device makers only go with the 2.4 GHz receiver . This includes all portable gaming consoles , and also a slew of smartphones . To get a speedy connection activate both networks and connect the mobile devices to the 2.4 GHz network , just enabling the 5GHz network for your laptops and desktops . Sometimes you ca n't have the luxury of choosing the 5GHz frequency band or selecting a " lonely " channel . In such cases , it may be worthwhile to limit your router to sending out signals at intervals of 20MHz . For small businesses with guest Wi - Fi , limit the guest access to 20MHz giving you and your employees a stronger signal with fewer dropouts . An easy , yet often forgotten piece of advice . Make sure that your router 's firmware is up - to - date - especially if you 've purchased a new one . Expect bandwidth , feature set and resiliency to signals to increase with the first few firmware updates . The latest firmware update can be downloaded from the manufacurer 's website and is relatively simple to update as most have a helpful how - to wizard . Sometimes a USB or built in wireless adapter / driver can not fully communicate with your PC or laptop and updating it could give it the push it needs to get working again . There are a few free tools to make this proccess easier such as Driver Talent which identifies the problem and offers the best downloadable update available for most operating systems . Mac operating systems can find software update solutions on the Apple website . Use a Wi - Fi heatmapping tool to measure the impact of distance , frequency changes and building structures on signal strength . Two tools that are great for this job are NetSpot for Mac and Heatmapper for Windows . Both tools allow you to track Wi - Fi coverage in your office or home . The more points you scan , the more exact your Wi - Fi heatmap . Once you 're done , you end up with a map that shows you not just the signal strength but also the throughput of your Wi - Fi network .   Some routers are set up with their " power savings " mode on by default . The goal : save a few milliwatts . Unfortunately , this commendable approach reduced bandwidth disproportionately . If you value bandwidth over minimal power savings , check out the router 's setting and look for entries called " Transmission Power " or various Eco modes . Turn them OFF . Also , do check if your router sports some sort of " Automatic " transmission setting . You may want to turn it off and go " 100 percent " all the time . Unfortunately , the laws of physics sometimes stand in the way of proper wireless bandwidth and signal strength . The distance between your router and the wireless adapter is a more relevant factor than you might think so avoid placing it near thick brick or concrete walls . Placing the router higher up could make a difference to wireless signal . Your Wi - Fi signal can become weak if your PC is too old or too untidy . One way to boost your Wi - Fi speed is to declutter your PC and shed any unnecessary files or programmes that could be slowing it down .   There 's plenty of software that claim to speed up your PC and make the general day - to - day running much smoother . We like AVG PC TuneUp , Avast ! Cleanup , CCleaner , and F - Secure Booster . For the best tools to clean your PC see : Eight tools that could speed up your PC . If you share your internet connection with people that like to download videos , stream TV shows or play online video games , you might want to consider setting up a few rules . You could suggest that they download content during less popular times . But if you do n't fancy any awkward confrontations , there are tools out there that will prioritise apps or programmes . This should result in the most important programmes getting bandwidth priorities .  