Ventureburn had the opportunity to attend the first Startup Grind Cape Town event of 2017 , which featured David Campey and Roger Norton . The pair are co - founders of Lean Iterator , which is an organisation that supports startups . We sifted through everything and found the three most interesting points from the pair . The master of ceremonies , Guillaume De Smedt , asked the pair how to define a startup . Norton started off by quoting serial entrepreneur Steve Blank : " A startup is a temporary organisation used to search for a repeatable and scalable business model . " Campey summarised this by saying that it [ a startup ] " can be building tech and all of these things , but really it is a search for a business model , which has a customer , a problem , and a solution , and a way of scaling " . Norton defined the likes of corner shops as small businesses and not startups , but added there 's nothing wrong with a small business at all . " A startup , specifically , is trying to do something unknown , trying to do something new , trying to do something innovative . " " The Lean Iterator is a process to help entrepreneurs ( find ) what they need to do next . And to guide them through what they need to validate next in their business , " Norton explained , elaborating further on this aspect . " The fundamental job of a startup is to reduce risk and the reason we want to reduce risk is that it increases the evaluation . The only way to reduce risk is through validation . " Campey likened startups and what Lean Iterator does to the Super Mario Bros. video game . " You start , you jump , and then you die . That 's how Mario goes . Our goal is to teach people that you die , you get an extra life to try again and how to play the game as an entrepreneur and how to beat the game as the community and investors behind it . " He said it 's not easy , because the game becomes harder and the Princess is always in another castle . The organisation also gives startups a set of international ( and working ) tools and guides on what they should be focusing on next . One of the ways Campey and Norton help startups is to convince them that they do n't need technology , at least in the beginning . " We 've developed this data process , the anti - sales process of telling entrepreneurs why you 're not ready to build technology , " says Norton . " It does n't really make sense when your core business is selling software and you spend most of your days telling people why they should n't be selling software , " he continued . Campey says that people really have to be convinced of this and Norton adds that people come to him and ask for the next Facebook to be built . " Technology does n't make the business , " says Norton . " The business model needs to work , regardless of the technology . The technology helps that scale , " which Norton adds is the hardest part .