If you paid even the slightest attention to tech media and conferences in 2016 , you heard how the Internet of Things ( IoT ) is the next big thing . While there 's hype surrounding the tremendous opportunity the IoT offers , there are still hazards that have yet to be properly addressed . The biggest concern -- safety -- is a thorny topic with which enterprises are still grappling . For example , 2016 's DDoS attack on Dyn that took down several major websites such as Twitter was caused by a bot army of unsecured IoT devices . This attack is only the tip of the iceberg , and in 2017 we should expect more of the same , but websites and companies wo n't be the only targets . Unless manufacturers and users of connected devices get serious about security , we will see these attacks evolve this year . I believe that there 's a significant chance these attacks could extend to major government institutions and hospitals . According to a study from HP , 70 percent of IoT devices are currently vulnerable to an attack . While both manufacturers and their customers are certainly working to reduce that , a significant number of IoT devices will still be unprotected in 2017 . Additionally , Gartner predicts over 20 billion IoT devices by 2020 . Let 's say that in the next three years the number of secure IoT devices doubles , which means that only 40 percent will be insecure . According to Gartner 's estimate that means a total of 8 billion devices by then that are free to be enlisted in a hacker 's arsenal : roughly equivalent to the population of the Earth . That security risk is beyond anything we 've currently seen in the realm of cybersecurity . The risk is n't necessarily coming from the sophistication of attacks but poor security practices of IoT users . Bad practices such as using the default usernames and passwords that are supposed to be used only for setup and then changed , are making it easy for attackers to take those devices and using them as botnets . Companies are n't doing much to stop this or other potential sources of breaches . A study showed over 90 percent of corporate executives said they can not read a cybersecurity report and are not prepared to handle a major attack and a stunning 98 percent of the most vulnerable executives have little confidence that their firms constantly monitor devices and users on their systems . It 's clear that most C - Suite executives do n't give cybersecurity enough consideration . Even more chilling news came from a report back in April , which ranked the U.S. government ( including federal , state and local agencies ) as having the worst cybersecurity protocols compared to 17 major private industries , including transportation , retail and health care . As these agencies face pressure to virtualize , move to the cloud and embrace connected devices , this lack of security will leave them greatly exposed . I believe that as a result of these vulnerabilities , there is a 50/50 chance that a significant cyber warfare attack is instrumented against the U.S. government , the U.S. military , U.S. critical infrastructure or the U.S. banking infrastructure . This organization will be ill - prepared and vulnerable ; it is also likely that the attack wo n't originate on IoT devices owned by the government but instead will come from the outside . Government infrastructure wo n't be the only new source of an attack that reaches tomorrow 's headlines . I also predict that a major hospital will face a HIPAA violation for using an unsecured smart medical device . Hospitals have a lot to gain from deploying the IoT for crucial data / insights to improve patient care , but so do hackers . They 're already targeting connected MRI machines , CT scanners and dialysis pumps to steal patient medical data , which is worth more than twice as much as financial information on the black market . While the FDA already recognizes that cybersecurity / HIPAA compliance is an important issue , it is not certain they get practices ready in time to prevent a major breach . And more important than data , there 's an ever - increasing chance that an IoT attack will put lives at risk if it can cause a shutdown of needed medical services . How will hospitals fight back ? The best prepared ones will do so by adopting improved security practices such as : password management , policies to ensure all devices are up to date / passwords get changed , network segmentation , software - defined network overlays with security built in and improved data management policies . Vital to ensuring that these practices get used successfully will be administrators that make them part of the hospital 's workplace culture . My advice for entrepreneurs and startups is to make IoT security a serious and valued part of company culture . Bake it in while the company is still young and there 's no complacency from " doing things the way we 've always done them . " Furthermore , do not make it solely the IT department 's responsibility to keep enterprise data safe . Every member of the organization needs to help take responsibility , follow security procedures to the letter and be vigilant for signs of danger . The good news is that there are security solutions out there to help , even with technology as nascent as the IoT. There is also a great deal of advice on the best practices to put in place , from a variety of experts and trusted sources . As Gartner cautioned at last year 's ITxpo , developing best practices can only prepare you for threats that are already known . Only innovation can prepare you for tomorrow 's threats that have yet to be discovered . A combination of advanced software and a strong internal culture will create a cybersecurity defense ready to take on potential attacks . Richard Conklin is a seasoned computer networking , switching and security expert with over 25 years of experience . He has 11 granted and several pending patents and specializes in developing and advancing innovative technologies . Past ...