Despite living in one one of the warmest countries on earth , Australians still love to complain about the cold when it start to creep below 20 degrees . While a Canadian might walk around in a t - shirt on a 14 degree day , Aussies are stacking up electricity bills by sitting in front of the TV , encircling ourselves with six fan heaters . Looking to help Australians save on their growing winter electricity bills is Reposit Power , a Canberra - based startup offering a device which allows homeowners to store energy from their solar panels on a battery and sell it back to their electricity provider for " GridCredits " . Once it hits the billing period , a homeowner will receive a discount on their electricity bill based on how many GridCredits they 've accumulated . Users are also empowered with the ability to make a ' profit ' if they accumulate GridCredits worth more than their electricity bill , in which the electricity provider will decide to either pay the homeowner the difference or carry the credits over onto the next bill . For the startup 's cofounders Lachlan Blackhall and Dean Spaccavento , the concept was imagined back in 2011 , a time before Elon Musk 's battery ideas were flooding the media and battery storage technologies were widely available . " In 2011 and 2012 there was n't much battery storage technology in the market , so we estimated that they 'd be available in the next few years . Our estimate was right , so it was good timing , " said Spaccavento . With experience in software and electricity , Spaccavento helped conceive the economics of what would become the Reposit Power system , before both cofounders looked for a way to control the battery storage to try and get the most out of it as possible , while factoring in the fluctuating electricity market . " The electricity market works by providing opportunities for cheap buying of electricity and cheap consumption , and likewise expensive times to buy and consume , based on a number of factors , " Spaccavento explained . Supported by a combination of government grants , seed funding and a scaling round , the result was an ' Internet of Energy ' ( IoE ) device that automates the entire storage and sell - back process for the user . To ensure homeowners can capitalise on the varying energy market costs , Reposit Power intelligently calculates the best time to hold and send electricity based on factors such as weather , wholesale markets , network conditions , and temperature . " You can consider it like a stockbroker for your power , " said Spaccavento . " A homeowner does n't have the time in the day to select when to charge or discharge the battery , [ so ] it tries to find the best time to store and send off power . " Homeowners , can , however , view a number of details about their IoE device and solar panel through the Reposit Power app and web platform , to allow them " visibility " into how the device is working and see how much money they 're saving . The platform will detail how many GridCredits have been accumulated , and show how much cash they 'll save on their next electricity bill as well as altogether with the device . The Reposit Power app also " predicts " the lowest - cost times for a homeowner to use their device , based on similar information used to calculate the energy sell times . These predictions , according to Spaccavento , will allow homeowners a chance to plan when they 'll use home devices and appliances ahead of times to help them save . " It 'll inform you when to turn your high energy devices on , based on things like the time of the day where the energy costs vary . Through a push notification it will specify which time of day you should aim for . You 'll also get push notifications when your battery is participating in the grid , " he added . The physical IoE device is a small white box which attaches to a homeowner 's powerbox that is connected to the internet , solar grid and a battery for storage . Batteries are n't supplied by Reposit Power , and are instead purchased from a participating solar company who will install the battery , alongside the IoE device , into a home electricity grid . Spaccavento said the business is currently partnered with a number of Australian and international solar companies who install the device and integrate it with their brand 's solar panels . " You can install reposit power anytime , although you 'll need to be plugged into a compatible energy provider that will buy energy off you and allow you to save on your power bill , " he said . Also partnering with Australian energy providers to allow homeowners to sell electricity back to the grid is Redback Technologies . The startup offers a IoE device that stores electricity from a home solar panel onto a battery , giving its users the additional option to store the energy for reuse . Another local startup focusing on energy storage for reuse is Adelaide 's ZEN , which offers a storage device designed to reduce energy bills , while Sydney 's Wattwatchers yesterday announced it has raised $ 2 million in funding to further develop its Auditor IoE product . Auditor works by attaching to a home power box and monitoring the in and out - coming power . Data supplied from the device is then able to inform homeowners what devices are sucking up the most power , thus helping them to take action to reduce power bills and the chance of blackouts . Including Reposit Power , these IoE startups are focused on targeting homeowners , a direction which Spaccavento says is n't to isolate businesses wanting to use the technology , but rather a way of following the direction of the market . " We 're marketing to homeowners because that 's where all the innovation happens in the electricity , " he said . Moving forward , the business will look to position themselves as the prominent electricity storage business in Australia and globally using their " sophisticated , control - system focused " technology .