Apple CEO Tim Cook . Steve Kovach / Tech InsiderSeveral major tech companies have killed off their Apple Watch apps , according to Apple Insider . Google , Amazon , and eBay reportedly removed support for their standalone Apple Watch apps in software updates rolled out at the end of April . Amazon and Ebay pulled their main shopping apps , while Google killed off its Google Maps app . None of the companies announced they were pulling the WatchOS apps in their iOS software update release notes and the removals have gone largely unnoticed , suggesting they were n't widely used . Apple remains committed to the Apple Watch but it has struggled to convince people that they need to buy one . Official sales figures for the device are n't available , but analysts estimate that they 're increasingly disappointing . Last October , analysts at IDC estimated that Apple shipped 1.1 million Apple Watches in the third quarter of 2016 , which was down 71.6% from the year - ago period . Apple is n't the only company struggling to sell wearable devices . Google 's Android Wear smartwatches , which are made by an array of manufacturers , are also struggling to take off . Google had to delay the next version of Wear until 2017 , and several partners have abandoned their plans to make new Android smartwatches this year . Motorola even said it halted its smartwatch plans indefinitely . And , Pebble , the startup largely responsible for juicing interest in smartwatches back in 2012 , sold itself to Fitbit for basically nothing last December . Its future products were cancelled , and support for current products will end soon . Interestingly , Google reportedly told Apple Insider it plans to add Apple Watch support for its Google Maps app again in the future . .@Google comment on @Apple Watch : " We removed Apple Watch support from our latest iOS release but expect to support it again in the future " A number of other companies have also killed off their Apple Watch app , including US retailer Target , according to Apple Insider . Disclosure : Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions .