Record - high temperatures were seen in NSW over the weekend , creating conditions described as " catastrophic " for firefighters as over 90 bushfires raged around the state . All this came just a few days after Treasurer Scott Morrison brought into Parliament last week a lump of coal . With this , it seems fitting that EnergyLab , Australia 's first accelerator program focused on developing the renewable and advanced energy sector in NSW , should launch this week . With $ 120,000 in funding from state government body Jobs for NSW , the EnergyLab accelerator is a 12 month program developed with Climate - KIC Australia aiming to help startups with new products or services become market - ready . To be housed at the Blackfriars School House at the University of Technology Sydney 's Chippendale campus , the program will give startups $ 50,000 in seed funding . Eight startups will take part in the program over the next year , in two intakes . John Barilaro , Deputy Premier of NSW , said the development of renewable and advanced energy will help drive the creation of new businesses and jobs for the future . " The energy industry is changing rapidly providing a huge opportunity for research , new technologies , businesses and jobs in renewable and advanced technology , " he said . " The International Renewable Energy Agency estimates jobs in the cleantech sector could reach 24 million globally by 2030 , up from 8.1 million currently , and we want NSW in on this industry growth . " Piers Grove , cofounder and executive director of EnergyLab , added , " This is an exciting step up for the cleantech startup community in Sydney . Being able to offer industry specific support in this vibrant community will help position Sydney as a go - to market for innovation and opportunity . " With the Jobs for NSW grant to enable the fit - out of the coworking space and first - year operation costs of the accelerator , EnergyLab will have capacity for up to 60 people ; according to Jobs for NSW , it has been set a target to create up to 76 direct jobs each year in the cleantech sector . This will come with the expertise of Climate - KIC , a public - private partnership launched in Europe in 2010 as one of three Knowledge and Innovation Communities ( KICs ) by the European Institute of Innovation and Technology . The network helps to create new partnerships across research , business , and technology to help push cleantech innovation . 170 startups in the Climate - KIC network have raised a collective EUR189 M in external funding between 2012 and 2015 . Christopher Lee , CEO of Climate - KIC Australia , said the organisation brings " a European experience to the table " but looks forward to offering a program that is " distinctly Australian and relevant in an Asian context " with EnergyLab . The launch of EnergyLab comes a few weeks after New Zealand startup agency CreativeHQ announced Lightning Lab Electric , an accelerator program focused on businesses working across the areas of electricity and sustainable energy . The 12 week accelerator will follow on from an Innovation Challenge looking for ideas , prototypes , and developed products relating to the sector , split across the tracks of consumer solutions , network solutions , and the future grid . You can learn more about EnergyLab here . The program is set to kick off in April .