Startup Genome 's recent 150-page report , the Global Startup Ecosystem Report and Ranking 2017 , incorporates research from 10,000 startups and 300 partner companies . It also highlights a major concern in the tech and startup world : Geographic centralization which is leading to increasing inequality . What the report does n't give is an easy solution . But it points to way to the principles that could help : a cultural shift away from centralizing the entire industry . Here 's the relevant overview paragraph from the new research report : " Rapid technological change is today creating three economic challenges . We see divergence between geographic regions driven by technology . We see concentration of startups and their value . And we see growing inequality among different types of workers because of that concentration . At a high level , these gaps are not new . But the expansion of the tech sector -- and its infiltration of other sectors -- is exacerbating them . Only strong startup ecosystems can ensure wider participation and benefits , and all regions must urgently take up this task . " The report , which you can read in its entirety , does into additional detail on the matter , noting that cities like San Francisco , New York City , or Boston have outpaced others , and tying this to the sluggish economic growth since the 2009 recession . The result : " Five ecosystems ( Silicon Valley , New York City , Beijing , Seattle , and Shanghai ) account for 49 percent of the market value of these dominant public companies . " " Delocation " is the buzzword that attempts to solve this issue : It 's a play on " relocation , " and it means exactly what you think it does . Startup Zapier recently published a blog post covering their commitment to delocation : As a one hundred percent remote team , they 've decided to offer funds to new hires who are hoping to move away from the Bay area . Here 's the info : " So if you 're living in the Bay Area but thinking about making a change that will improve your family 's standard of living , we 're eager to help . Zapier will provide up to $ 10,000 to help relocate you and your family to your new home outside the Bay Area . If you 've been thinking about making a move , apply to any of the open roles . We 'll go through the hiring process together and if it seems like you like Zapier and you 've demonstrated the necessary skills for us to make an offer , we 'll help set you up with the relocation package as part of it . " But this approach will only solve the overarching centralization problem if major companies follow suit -- which they 're definitely not . Amazon , one of the biggest draws for tech employees , is rapidly expanding , adding thousands of employees to its Seattle offices , while several California - based companies , Uber and Airbnb , have IPOs on the horizon . Expect the problem to get a lot worse before it gets better .