Wrench says its mechanics serviced more than 1,000 cars during a test run this summer . ( Via Wrench )   Investors like what they see in Wrench . The Seattle - based on - site car repair startup today announced a $ 4 million Series A round led by Madrona Venture Group , which previously co - led the company 's $ 1.2 million seed round last year . Angel investors like super angel Rudy Gadre ; TravelBank co - founder Ching - Ho Fung ; former Dwellable CEO Kirby Winfield ; Versium founder Kevin Marcus ; and angel group Vashon Partners also participated . Wrench will use the fresh cash to hire mechanics , fuel marketing programs , and expand its presence on the west coast . The 1-year - old company currently operates in Seattle ; Phoenix ; San Diego ; and Portland . Much like Uber brings you a ride and GrubHub brings you food , Wrench brings you a car mechanic . Using its website or smartphone app , customers can input work they need done on their vehicle and when and where they would like mechanics to go . Anything from an office parking lot to a downtown parking garage to a customer 's driveway is fair game , though Wrench will not work on cars parked on the street for safety reasons . A certified mechanic with at least five years of experience will perform work at a customer 's home or office , with upfront fixed price quotes . Wrench says it can do more than 80 percent of all car repair and maintenance work that can be done outside of a shop . Much like Uber or Lyft , tips are n't required . Examples of jobs include replacing brake pads ; fixing an ignition problem ; diagnosing exhaust issues ; and more . The company initially limited its services to oil changes , tune - ups and basic brake repair , but high demand led Wrench to expand services to cover almost anything that a shop or dealership would provide . " Wrench continues to invest in its technology , which provides a huge advantage in this industry , and the hiring of the highest quality mechanics , " Wrench CEO Ed Petersen told GeekWire . Wrench , which employs 30 people , will also add new services for customers and ink more partnerships to bolster its on - demand marketplace . Total funding to date is $ 5.3 million . Wrench said it saves people an average of 2.4 hours of travel and wait time ; it also claims to be as much as 30 percent less expensive than car dealership service bays , while its prices are on par with independent car repair shops . Its service is backed by a 1-year , 12,000 mile guarantee on both parts and labor . Peterson has been working with the same team for more than a decade . He and some his current colleagues founded and sold Intelius , a public record search company , and TalentWise , which does background checks and other screening services . The car repair industry is pegged at around $ 60 billion . There are other companies like Wrench -- namely , Your Mechanic , which just raised $ 24 million earlier this month . And then there 's Fiix , which just launched out of Y Combinator . " U.S. consumers spend more than $ 60 billion annually on car repairs and maintenance and the service model hasn't changed meaningfully since the invention of the oil change shop , " Madrona Managing Director Len Jordan said in a statement . " Wrench applies modern mobile , internet commerce and data analytics techniques to this market and delivers a physical service that consumers need multiple times a year . "