" I love what you 're building and I want to invest , BUT I just need to see some more meaningful traction . " -Every VC Ever Every entrepreneur has heard this unfortunate phrase at one point or another . I heard it all the time as a former founder myself , and I 'm embarrassed to admit that I 've used it a few times as an investor . But no more ! Traction has become this ubiquitous term that too many VCs use to meekly pass on companies , especially early - stage or pre - seed startups . According to Nick Chirls of Notation Capital , modern day seed funds invest more like Series A / B investors of previous generations . Wonder Ventures likes to be the first institutional capital in , which often means we invest in startups before there 's any meaningful traction . We do this because we think it will provide outsized risk - adjusted returns when compared to many other stages in the market .   So what exactly do we look for when we meet true early - stage founders before they 've achieved meaningful traction ? I look for things that I 've started categorizing as " Micro - Traction . " There are a ton of resources available for founders looking to raise capital from the traditional seed firms once they have this so - called traction . These are the three key elements of micro - traction that founders can demonstrate to create funding momentum before meaningful revenue or customer growth . " Let 's stay in touch . I 'd love to invest when you grow to $ 100 K MRR . " I 'm guessing you 've heard this one before . And when you did , you probably thought , " No duh ! When I hit $ 100 K MRR lots of people will want to invest . " So how do you show traction to early - stage investors before you hit $ 100 K MRR ? Show measurable growth and a positive trajectory in an important business area like revenue . It 's OK if it 's on a small base . For example , as explained in Mark Suster 's seminal post about investors looking to " Invest in Lines , Not Dots " , you could show an early stage investor the following trajectory : At this point , we 're talking about only $ 5 K MRR , a lot less than $ 100 K , but the trajectory of three months of accelerating growth and execution shows me where your business is going and gets me excited about it . This may not be a big number by traditional " seed " investor - traction standards , but investors love to extrapolate from results . Plus , you 've just demonstrated your ability to execute across three months of interactions with the investor . " Your product looks great ! Let 's talk again when I can see 12 months of customer data and a cohort analysis of churn " The thing is , you haven't even been in business for 12 months . You only launched a beta of your product three months ago , so seed investors are basically saying they wo n't even consider your business for investment for another nine months . How do you show where your revenue is coming from and who your customers are without large numbers and months of data ? As an early - stage investor , I am less concerned with the scale of these numbers , but rather that you can prove that you 've identified a prototypical customer and you know where to find more of them . One way for me to understand the organic fit of these customers is to become one myself . In an ideal early - stage scenario , an investor can use your product while getting to know you . If your product is for a specific customer who is not the investor , then push the investor to think of a friend , contact or , even better , a portfolio company that can use the product instead . Either way , be generous in giving free and easy access to your service and showing how valuable it is . And if they 're sharing it with others , this doubles as great business development for your company by getting intros to the investor 's contacts . There 's really no reason to be stingy . " It seems like your customers really love your product . Can I see the last $ 100k of marketing spend broken down by channel ? " $ 100 K ? You haven't even raised $ 100 K of funding yet , much less spent $ 100 K in marketing . Many seed or Series A investors will ask to review your marketing spend over a couple of months , looking for statistically significant proof that you 've already begun spending the money to acquire customers at scale . So , how do you prove your command of customer acquisition to early - stage investors ? The key is to prove at least one ( ideally two ) channels at a small scale . Find ones you can test for a modest amount of money ( say $ 500 ) to obtain specific metrics on acquisitions costs , conversions , and most importantly , the scalability of the channel . For example , Google Search Ads are often one of the best ways to show micro - customer acquisition , as Google provides you with the tools to spend small dollars , clearly track performance and get a decent feel for the scale of potential leads they can provide . I often hear founders tell me their acquisition strategy will be driven by free channels , such as , BizDev , Partnerships , Advisors , SEO , Content Marketing or PR . Heads up , these are examples of the types of answers that usually do n't stand up to the test . Because they are free , every startup is going after them and you ca n't buy scale . If you 're going to mention the above strategies , you would not only have to show me a detailed plan for execution , but also make me believe you have a unique competitive advantage to be able acquire customers via these very unpredictable means . This was originally published on Medium . Techstars helps entrepreneurs succeed . Want to become part of our worldwide entrepreneur network ? Apply today . This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .