Partnering with investors that complement them has helped SA tech startup and online car buying service CarZar.co.za land $ 1.5-million in funding from a Sweden - listed investment firm , says CarZar Joint managing director Fernando Pinheiro . Pinheiro announced the deal by Vostok New Ventures , which is also behind Russia 's leading online classifieds company Avito , last week . He said the company was approached by several potential investors after opening its Series - A round of funding . He said CarZar was introduced to the investment company through common connections . " We tried to partner with investors that gelled with our business , enabling good synergies working together . Vostok New Ventures proved to be this type of investor . They have a great reputation , with a portfolio of several successful companies , " said Pinheiro , in an emailed response to questions from Ventureburn . As part of the startup 's Series - A funding round , CarZar is also backed by Silvertree Capital , the SA based venture capital firm and by a third undisclosed UK - based investor focusing on emerging markets . Read more : CarZar gets backed by Silvertree Capital Pinheiro said due to legal agreements with investors , he could not disclose the size of the Series - A round and shareholding details . " However , as VNV is a listed company , the value of their investments are public . In this round , Vostok New Ventures contributed $ 1.5-million , " he said . In an earlier press release to Ventureburn , Pinheiro said the company -- which he founded last year with Michael Muller -- will use the latest round of funding to help improve customer experience , boost marketing and recruit more talent to join their international team . He would not disclose the value of cars sold through the site so far and what the average value of each car sale is , however he added that since launching in April last year the company has seen steady monthly growth of 30% . " I would also like to add that we are reaching thousands of quotes and bookings every month and we foresee them growing with larger marketing reach and territorial expansion . " He added that the company purchases any type of vehicle -- no matter the make , model , colour , age or mileage . " We 've already purchased cars from as low as R11 000 , up to R1-million . " Vostok New Ventures has also funded other successful online tech brands including ride sharing service BlaBlaCar , taxi hailing service Gett and AI - driven digital healthcare company Babylon . Featured image : supplied Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Startup news