Studies show entrepreneurship is on the rise . ( Shutterstock Photo )   The Great Recession struck a major and lasting blow to entrepreneurship but the nation 's startup ecosystem appears to finally be recovering . That 's according to a new study from the Progressive Policy Institute ( PPI ) , a moderate think tank and policy advocate , and TechNet , an advocacy group comprised of tech CEOs . The study ( aimed at persuading local and federal governments to enact policy that promotes innovation ) analyzed government data and job listings to determine the health of startups in the U.S. and the impact they have on job growth and the overall economy . Bureau of Labor statistics from 2015 to 2016 reveal that new establishments -- that is new startups or businesses that expand to new locations -- are finally increasing after years in a recession valley . " The creation of new establishments finally accelerated in 2015 and 2016 -- not just in the leading tech hubs , but in smaller states and communities as well , " writes PPI chief economist Michael Mandell . " Overall , the number of private - sector establishments increased by 2.5 percent in the first three - quarters of 2016 , the fastest rate of growth since before the Great Recession , and just below the 2.7 percent average rate of the 1990s . " Researchers also studied the content of job listings on Indeed.com , to find out how frequently the word " startup " appeared . They claim the presence of the word -- even in listings from big companies that claim to operate like startups -- indicates a culture that values entrepreneurship . The presence of the word " startup " increased by 60 percent between 2014 to 2016 , according to the study . PPI and TechNet are encouraged by these numbers because they see an increase in startup creation as a big driver of jobs . Mandell also notes that this growth is n't just taking place in coastal hubs like San Francisco , Seattle , Boston , and New York . Unsurprisingly , those tech centers dominated the study 's top 10 list of metro areas where " startup " appeared most frequently in job listings . But Mandell says it 's equally important to look at the regions lower on the top 25 list as up - and - coming centers of innovation and entrepreneurship .   A 2016 Kauffman Index Report backs up the PPI 's findings that startup ecosystems are bouncing back . The study also supports the theory that startup growth is spreading across the country , beyond traditional tech hubs . Washington D.C. , Columbus , Ohio , Nashville , Tenn. , and San Antonio , Texas , were all on the Kauffman Index 's top 10 list of metros with the highest growth in entrepreneurship activity . The Kauffman study calls this phenomenon " The Rise of the Rest . " " From Chicago to New Orleans , Nashville to Los Angeles , vibrant new companies are being formed that have the potential to become significant job creators -- particularly if nourished and supported by the right public policies , " Mandell writes . Nudging the government toward those public policies is the impetus for the study . The PPI is imploring the federal government to reconsider rules governing crowdfunding and investing , to double down on STEM education and R&D , and to reform immigration policy to promote entrepreneurship . " The recent acceleration of establishment growth suggests that [ economic ] dynamism may be slowly starting to revive -- but it is not enough , " Mandell says .