Ten robotics - related companies got funded in December for a combined total of $ 94 million ; down from $ 225 million in November . Four more got acquired . Over $ 2 billion was involved . No companies went public . " Our origins are in robotics , our future is as an apparel company , " said Rich Mahoney , co - founder and CEO of Superflex , who previously served as the Director of Robotics at SRI International . " We 'll combine comfort and style with power assist for clothes that look good and help people feel good . Our powered clothing will give people the ability to move more freely ; to gain strength and confidence ; to be more injury - free in the workplace ; to achieve higher levels of wellness and social engagement ; to stay in the home longer ; and to recover from injuries faster . " " The agriculture sector has been an early adopter of commercial drone technology , with several companies now offering products for monitoring crops , " explains John Kolaczynski , head of corporate development for the Commercial Drone Fund . " What impressed us with Raptor Maps ' product is that it collects a vast amount of data , distills it down , and correlates actions that a grower can take on a season - to - season basis -- something we haven't seen in other drone products . We believe this is a great product for the agriculture sector that can drive increased yields and reduced costs for growers . " Only four robotics - related companies went public in 2016 ; none occured in December . According to Erin Griffith of Fortune 's Term Sheet , the biggest trend in late stage venture funding in 2016 was the retreat of hedge funds and mutual funds . Instead , 2016 was the year of the " non - tech incumbents , " doing big tech startup acquisitions . ( Think Intelligrated - Honeywell , GM - Cruise , Midea - KUKA ) . It was the year of corporate makeovers , a drive to find new avenues in the face of anemic growth . Companies are reinventing themselves by acquiring talent , technology and growth businesses . Nevertheless , everyone that 's ever invested in tech is praying 2017 will be the year of IPOs . < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >