New French president Emmanuel Macron will take office this weekend . But the country 's soon - to - be - former - president , Francois Hollande , apparently is n't going far . Hollande , whose administration launched La French Tech program to accelerate France 's startup economy , has announced he will move his foundation to Paris ' Station F , the startup campus that will open this summer as a home for more than 1,000 startups . Hollande 's foundation , La France s'engage , funds social innovation startups to help address challenges ranging from unemployment to agriculture to education to the environment . Launched more than two years ago , the foundation has funded 77 nonprofits working on various social innovation projects . At Station F , he 'll be surrounded by a buzzing hive of startup activity when the campus opens this summer . Read More : Inside the construction of Paris ' Station F : The landmark campus for 1,000 startups Funded by French telecom entrepreneur Xavier Niel , the ambitious project aims to attract 1,000 startups to its $ 265 million campus , a renovated historic train station in the heart of Paris . In recent weeks , Station F has been announcing partnerships with high - profile names , including incubators sponsored by Facebook and Zendesk , a travel perk offered by Airbnb , and office space for Amazon mentorships . In the most recent announcement , Station F also noted that Silicon Valley 's Plug and Play will open a fintech and insurance tech accelerator . The campus is also adding a medtech incubator and an incubator for Franco - Chinese startups . Station F will have three sections : a space with 3,000 desks for startups , an event space for conferences and meetings , and a retail zone for the public that will include four kitchens and a bar open 24 hours a day . The mix of tenants will also include venture capital firms , a fab lab hacker space , and several corporate partners . As part of the project , Station F is also redeveloping two nearby buildings that will offer subsidized housing for 600 people who are in some way connected to the campus . The first group of tenants is expected to move in by early July , which is interesting timing given that it coincides with the start of summer holidays in France . Much of the country is shut down for August holidays . Here 's Hollande speaking at Station F , in case you want to get your French on :