The percentage of venture - backed startups with at least one female founder has plateaued at 17 percent for the past five years . ( Crunchbase Graphic )   There have been increasing efforts over the past few years to close the gender gap in tech , and particularly in startups . A high - profile scandal inside Uber 's engineering division , and constant efforts from women in business and tech positions , have made diversity front - and - center in the minds of many . So how much have the headlines , the hours spent networking and the push for diversity in hiring changed the landscape for women at the heads of startups ? Not much , it turns out . A new report from Crunchbase 's ongoing study of female founders found that just 17 percent of venture - backed companies in the first quarter of 2017 had at least one female founder . The same was true for all of 2016 . In fact , that number has held steady since 2012 -- apart from in 2015 , where it was just 16 percent . The report also found that women - led startups receive fewer investment dollars than male - led startups at every stage of the funding process . The gap is particularly large in late - stage funding , where startups with at least one female founder raised just 8 percent of rounds and 7 percent of total dollars . The lack of movement in the founder gender gap over the past five years tells us something many women already knew : There 's no silver bullet to solve diversity challenges . Many of the factors that influence gender gaps in startups , and more generally in tech industry leadership , have to do with deeply ingrained social and cultural norms . Unfortunately , there 's very little research to help companies , investors and founders address the problem . A recent study from TinyPulse also indicates startup leaders have a blind spot when it comes to culture : the study found that leaders consistently rated their company 's culture better than their employees did . The same study found that startups with female founders tended to grow faster , possibly because more diverse workforces are consistently found to lead to better results .