Silene Biotech co - founders Alex Jiao , left , and Jenna Strully . ( Silene Biotech Photo )   Silene Biotech wants to help you grow a new heart or liver , in case those organs fail when you get older . The ambitious Seattle startup -- founded two years ago and a member of the 2017 TechStars Seattle class -- today is launching a new service that freezes and stores your white blood cells so they can be used decades later when troubling ailments set in . The big idea ? You could preserve the cells from your 23-year - old body for use when you are 65 , and possibly facing life - threatening diseases . Founded by four Seattleites , including two former University of Washington researchers , Silene is on the cutting - edge of a new field of regenerative medicine , which rebuilds parts of the body . While growing a new heart with your own cells may be decades off , two of Silene 's co - founders , Alex Jiao and Jenna Strully , believe preparing for those medical breakthroughs now could be a huge advantage . Jiao and Strully came up with the idea for Silene after meeting in a science business class at the University of Washington , where Jiao was studying bioengineering and Strully , who is also a medical doctor , was in the MBA program . They competed in the UW 's business plan competition and won some initial funding during the process . The startup has raised $ 450,000 in total from UW grants and awards , angel investments , the founders ' own cash and funds from TechStars . Jiao , who is just 28 years old , said he hopes the startup will " educate and raise awareness and provide a service , " along with pushing the needle towards personalized medicine , a kind of medicine that tailors treatments to specific individuals . The company was originally named miPS Labs , a nod to its focus on induced pluripotent stem ( iPS ) cell technology . Unlike most stem cells , which naturally occur in the body , these cells are engineered from an average adult 's white blood cells and could be used in regenerative medicine to grow extra tissue or even entire organs . " The first applications of this regenerative medicine technology are starting to hit clinical trials , " Jiao said .    But the older we get , the less effectively the process works , he said . Silene Biotech is collecting and storing cells now , so customers can use them years or decades down the line . Part of their plan is a newly - developed collection system . Instead of collecting urine samples , which the startup did in their beta trial , it is now partnering with Bloodworks Northwest to collect samples of customer 's blood . Starting Thursday , customers can sign up to have blood drawn at Bloodworks Northwest 's downtown Seattle location . Jiao said they will soon also be taking samples at other Bloodworks locations throughout the Northwest . The sample will then be processed by the company and stored in a facility in Indianapolis , far from Seattle 's threat of disruptive earthquakes . The service costs $ 299 for the initial processing and first year of storage , and $ 50 per year after that . Customers can access their cells at any time , retrieving them to be used in medical procedures . The cells are anonymized during processing to protect patient confidentiality , and customers also retain the right to have the cells destroyed at any time . There 's no way to know exactly what these cells could be used for in the future , but early possibilities include growing tissue to repair organs , using lab - grown tissue to test patients for drug resistance , and even growing entire organs for patients who need transplants . To explain the possible uses of these specialized cells , Jiao cited the first clinical trial in which they were studied . In the trial , researchers took skin cells from a patient with vision loss and converted them into lab - grown stem cells . The cells were then grown into retinal cells and implanted in the patient 's eye , and halted her vision loss . " Maybe a decade or so off is when we 'll really start seeing the fruits of this research turn into viable therapies that can treat and cure diseases , and maybe a couple more decades until we can regrow entire organs , " Jiao said . " We 're not going to grow a heart tomorrow , " he said , but trials are about to begin that aim to growing parts of a heart . While iPS cells are the area of Jiao 's expertise , he said the company changed its name because it realized there were many more applications to its service than just iPS cells . Stored white blood cells are being studied as a treatment for Leukemia , for example . But the switch was also inspired by a remarkable story . In 2007 , in the Northern reaches of Siberia , Russian scientists dug up a cache of seeds hidden by a squirrel . The seeds were estimated to be 32,000 years old . A few years later , scientists were able to germinate one of the seeds and grow it into an adult plant : the silene stenophylla . That seed is officially the oldest living organism to survive being frozen . Jiao said he hopes Silene Biotech will do a better job than squirrels did 32,000 years ago . We caught up with Silene 's founders for this Startup Spotlight , a regular GeekWire feature . Keep reading for a Q&A with Jiao and Strully , and check out all our Startup Spotlights here . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " We store your younger cells today so you can use them in personalized therapies and diagnostics in the future . " Inspiration hit us when :   Alex ( Jiao ) worked on deriving patient stem cells and turning them into heart cells and he realized he could be doing this easily for himself . VC , Angel or Bootstrap : Bootstrap and angels . Need a fair amount of capital to start a lab , now trying to prove the market . Our ' secret sauce ' is : Our passion , backgrounds , and our partnerships with UW and BloodworksNW The smartest move we 've made so far : Switching to blood and partnering with BloodworksNW The biggest mistake we 've made so far : Not moving faster Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : Zuckerberg . Goals are more in line regarding biotech , pretty audacious ( Chan + Zuckerberg initiative ) . Our favorite team - building activity is :   Grabbing snacks or meals ( team loves food ) . The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : Chemistry What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : Meet and talk to everyone and keep an open mind . Company Site : www.silenebiotech.com Twitter : www.twitter.com/silenebiotech LinkedIN : https://www.linkedin.com/in/silenebiotech