If we 've learned anything about the online world in the last few years , it 's that there is n't a lot consumers want to sit through ads for . The exception to the rule is mobile data , or the gold of the 21st century for the smartphone - obsessed . Taking advantage of this is Wellington - based startup Postr , which provides a platform for mobile network operators to show customers personalised deals and offers on their lock screens in exchange for a certain amount of free mobile data or extra credit . The idea came to cofounder and CEO Milan Reinartz during his time working in advertising as a designer , where he was frequently frustrated with the limited availability and poor formats of mobile display media from a creative point of view . " We 'd come up with these campaigns we were proud of and had to squeeze the content into tiny banners and poor ad units . It just did n't make any sense , " he said . Founded in 2014 , Postr originally launched with a business - to - consumer model , giving users cash for viewing ads through the Postr app . However , the team soon saw that people were n't interested enough in getting a few dollars a month and began work on a business - to - business model , creating white label apps built in partnership with carriers . " The idea of giving people mobile data in partnerships with carriers made a huge difference in retention levels and has put us on the map , " Reinartz said . A customer of a partner carrier with an Android handset would simply download the app , sign up , and get a new lock screen showing them personalised offers . They can choose to either engage with the offer or unlock their phone as they usually would . In return , they can choose to receive extra data or credit . For brands and agencies , Ben Searancke , Postr 's director of ad sales and partnerships across Australia and New Zealand , said this solution results in engagement rates up to 30 times higher than those seen for mobile banners , high conversion rates , and a deeper connection between mobile users and brands . " [ It 's ] a chance for advertisers to engage at a ' first touch ' opportunity before search or Facebook , " he said . " Combining audience , placement and engaging creative at scale is the holy grail that many advertisers are looking for in mobile advertising . " Postr has two partnerships already underway , with Skinny Mobile in New Zealand and with Optus in Australia , where Optus pre - paid customers can receive extra credit or up to 1 GB in extra data in exchange for using the Optus Xtra app . " The partnership with the telco is the most integral part of our business . We work with them from start to finish by understanding how this proposition works best with their existing roadmap and build the experience and commercial model around this , " Searancke explained . Reinartz agreed , " I think we 're now already at a stage where most telcos are not just pipes anymore . They 're looking for new opportunities to maximise their assets and expertise all over . They provide you with content , partner with major pay TV players and so on . " Sponsored data is a growing field of interest in the telco world and we fit well into that niche . There 's a number of benefits for carriers in doing this , ranging from revenue to brand loyalty and more . In terms of getting them on board , I would say this is about alignment and good relationships as it is in any other business . " The experience is crucial ; extra , free data may be as good as gold , but customers can go without if they have to go through too much to get it . Part of the experience also means receiving relevant offers ; to do this , the telcos use anonymised customer data to create personalised advertising . Reinartz said the process of creating the branded app for the telcos is collaborative ; with the majority of the ' skeleton ' already standardised , much of the process is about adding the surrounding elements such as visual design , branding , and minor integrations to make it a product the telcos customers recognise . With the partnerships with Boost Mobile and Optus established , Postr earlier this month announced the closing of a $ 3 million funding round , with participation from investors including the New Zealand Venture Investment Fund , private backers from Singapore and New Zealand , and senior leadership from PayPal in the US . The funding will go towards helping the startup expand further across Australia and Southeast Asia , with Postr stating it is in talks with a number of telcos in the region . The startup has some cashed up local competition , with Australian startup Unlockd , which provides a similar service , raising a $ 15 million Series A round last April . Unlockd has a deal with Lebara in Australia , and has also launched in the US and UK . Reinartz is not concerned , however , saying , " I believe we win big clients as a small company due to our core focus on user experience , customer value exchange , local market understanding , and agility . " With that , the coming year will see Postr focus on deepening its relationships with existing partners and working with new ones to expand into new markets .