Ask any entrepreneur and they 'll tell you the same thing : living the startup life is n't easy . Between the long nights , the stressful days , and the constant search for capital , starting a business is a lot harder than some people make it look . Fortunately , there are people and organizations in the world willing to help out in meaningful ways . And JPMorgan Chase is apparently one of those organizations . After kicking off Phoenix Startup Week , JPMorgan Chase announced that they would be providing $ 925,000 in philanthropic grants to non - profit organizations that provide programs to assist entrepreneurs that are underrepresented in their respective fields . While providing everything from training to technical assistance , these programs are doing their part to transform the entrepreneurial vision one micro - loan at a time . " We 're thrilled to return as title sponsor of Phoenix Startup Week for the third year , and excited to announce almost $ 1 million in grants to support nonprofits that assist underserved entrepreneurs , including women and minority small businesses , throughout Arizona , " said Curtis Reed , region manager for Chase 's Middle Market banking in Arizona . Chase 's involvement in the startup world is undeniable . With dozens of Startup Weeks under their belt , Chase has contributed to the success of thousands of startups through advice , support , and investment . And the organizations they are investing in now are definitely worth the capital . " We are committed to helping startups and entrepreneurs achieve their goals , " said Reed . " So I encourage you to work with these organizations , seek them out so that you can get the resources that you need . " Recipients honored at PHX Startup Week If you 're interested in learning more about the non - profits receiving these grants , take a look at them below and head on over to Phoenix Startup Week today : Accion - $ 125,000 to support outreach and small business development services throughout Arizona to underserved entrepreneurs who desire self - sufficiency but face barriers in qualifying for loans through traditional credit avenues . Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Foundation - $ 100,000 to support programs providing training and technical assistance for underserved entrepreneurs . ASU Foundation " Prepped " Program - $ 145,000 for " Prepped , " a community program that works with new and existing underserved mobile food entrepreneurs to help them advance their businesses . Chicanos Por La Causa 's subsidiary Prestamos - $ 150,000 to support lending programs for underserved entrepreneurs . Nogales Community Development Corporation - $ 100,000 to support its Business Loan Program , which facilitates neighborhood - based commerce by providing credit and related services to business owners in the underserved markets of Nogales , Ariz. , and Santa Cruz County , Ariz. Northern Arizona Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology ( NACET ) - $ 100,000 to this organization , based in Flagstaff , Ariz. , to support its programs for underserved entrepreneurs . SEED SPOT - $ 105,000 for programs to provide training and technical assistance to underserved entrepreneurs . University of Arizona Foundation - Eller Economic Development - $ 100,000 to support community programs for training and technical assistance for underserved entrepreneurs in Tucson . This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESSis everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .