The South Australian ( SA ) government has announced that it will extending Adelaide 's Gig City optic fibre network to the city 's coworking spaces and innovation hubs , as part of a larger push to modernise the state 's economy and infrastructure .   Using SABREnet fibre optic cabling , the near 200 km long Gig City network currently connects the city 's educational and research sites .   According to Andy Dunbar , the state 's Director for the Office of Science , Technology and Research ( OSTAR ) , the network provides speeds at a minimum of ten times faster than the NBN . " We looked at the existing network and thought there was a real opportunity to leverage off that asset and extend the fibre to innovation precincts , " said Dunbar . " We 've got support through the last state budget to do that , and we 're just in the process of onboarding an internet provider to service the connection . " The 2016 state budget looked to contribute $ 12.1 billion towards modernising the state 's economy and creating jobs for the future , with $ 4.7 million going towards extending the Gig City project .   Speaking to Startup Daily , SA minister for Manufacturing and Innovation , Kyam Maher , said the network is a step towards transforming the state 's economy during a pivotal time of change . " We 're going through some momentous change in Adelaide . For more than half a century we 've traditionally manufactured cars and washing machines , and now that 's making an end . We need to make a name for something in an area that is developing , " said Maher . The latest major manufacturer to leave the state , Holden last year announced that it would begin the closure of its Adelaide factory from October , a move which would see the lose of hundreds of jobs .   In response , the SA government looked at ways to create new jobs in the state , identifying startups as a crucial area for opportunity .   " Initiatives like the fibre network is trying to do things to make Adelaide a default location for startups . We want to give them no reason not to come to Adelaide , " said Maher .   Describing innovation as historically a part of " survival " , SA Premier Jay Weatherill told Startup Daily that supporting startups through initiatives like Gig City represents the approach SA must take to overcome challenges .   " The nature of the circumstances here has meant a need to come up with new ways to take on the challenges that present themselves . I think this culture of collaboration really is the idea . "   Adelaide is the first city outside the US to be connected with the optic network , having established it last year after forming a partnership with US Ignite , the non - profit organisation behind the US network . Maher said the US partnership opens up additional opportunities for Adelaide businesses , as Gig City gives the state access to collaborate with US companies and research across its fifteen city network . " It also allows us to potentially gain access to US funding to support application development in Adelaide . We 'll be invited to their annual conference once a year , with an opportunity to bring the conference to adelaide later down the track , " he said . Maher added that extending the Gig City network to innovation spaces was inspired by US cities such as Chattanooga , which implemented a fibre network after facing the decline of its major steel manufacturing economy .   " What 's it 's done is create about 3000 new extra jobs , brought in about $ 150 million venture capital into the city and generated over a billion in economic activity , " said Maher . The minister said that the internet service provider for the network will be announced mid March and will be available to innovation and coworking spaces in Adelaide from July .   Looking into other ways to modernise SA 's economy , the state has recently released the ' Lighting the Way , Global Opportunities for the Photonics Industry ' report , which examines how SA can target the $ 500 billion dollar photonics industry . Relating to companies working with light based technologies such as lasers and sensors , the report found that SA ranks within the top ten in optical fibre sensing development , with significant potential to move upwards . Predicting photonics to grow to a $ 600 billion dollar industry by 2020 , the report highlighted that existing photonics companies should target biophotonics , lasers , fibre optic sensors and fibre optic material to help SA 's photonics industry boom . Speaking about the report , Dunbar said that the photonics industry is important to the state as it 's an strong industry away from traditional manufacturing that has can help create high value jobs . " Photonics is a real research strength in Adelaide , and it has been that way for over 10 years . We can continue to market the capabilities we have and really put Adelaide on the map in regards to photonics , " said Dunbar . To support the photonics industry , the SA government launched the Photonics Catalyst Program in 2013 , which provides researchers in the field with up to $ 45,000 worth of research and development services to help form their prototype or product .   Maher said the industry can provide a " huge economic windfall " for the state , to help create new jobs while establishing the state as a world leader in photonics .   " Photonics is the electronics of the 21st century and could be a game - changer for South Australian companies , by using our well - focussed investment in researchers and facilities to create jobs and economic benefits for the state . "