Eyes flickering along the alphabet , I can " type " my name without lifting a finger . The sight - controlled keyboard following my gaze is being showcased by the Australian startup Psykinetic as part of the City of Sydney 's Unlimited Possibilities : Disability and Science Fiction Expo . Nick Temple , a software engineer at Psykinetic , guides me through the process of calibrating the system . I explode red dots on a computer screen by concentrating my gaze , so the eye tracking system can get to know my habits .   After that , I 'm able to type short sentences in only tens of seconds . SEE ALSO : The enduring cultural power of 2016 's # IndigenousDads hashtag The system , which uses pattern recognition , is part of a new class of assistive technologies that aim to remove barriers for people with disabilities . It 's a movement Melanie Tran is part of . Living with a neuromuscular condition , she is a lead user experience designer at AbilityMate , an Australian startup that uses 3D printing to create assistive devices . Unlike the preponderance of technology companies that force you to change your habits to fit with their platforms , she puts humans at the centre of the process . Her role , as she sees it , is to build empathy and design based on the end users ' needs and emotions .   It 's a perspective honed by her own experiences with technology -- most especially , her powered wheelchair . " When I was a lot younger , I saw a wheelchair more as a burden because it stopped me from accessing places , it stopped me from doing what I wanted to do , " she told me . " But as I got older , and as I started to work and got involved in the disability sector myself , I found that it was a freedom instead .   " It takes me to where I want to go , it gives me an independence to do what I love . " Tran , along with Peter Horsley , the founder of the technology accelerator Remarkable , which works with disability - focused startups , argue that technology companies should design their products with the broadest range of users in mind . AbilityMate was one of Remarkable 's first cohort in 2016 , along with startups like Sound Scouts , which created a game that can detect hearing loss in kids . Horsley said there 's a growing push towards universal design -- designing technology so it 's best for the largest amount of people . Although it 's not just about doing good , you should . Horsley argued that if you design for people with disabilities in mind , you open up more markets as well as creating a better user experience all round . " It takes me to where I want to go , it gives me an independence to do what I love . " Both he and Tran cited the iPhone as a powerful example of this idea : Think of Siri and the smartphone 's ability to read out your text messages as assistive technologies that can help anyone . " When you 're cooking , to be able to have something that can read the recipe out to you as you 've got stuff all over your hands . That 's a great assistive device , " he said . " I think the iPhone is a really awesome example -- it 's a universal design , to be honest , " Tran added . " It 's used by everyone , but it can also become one of the most powerful assistive technologies to someone who has a disability . " There are more prosaic reasons why universal design is important .   Tran warned that the customisation and personalisation necessary to make existing technologies work well for people with disabilities often come at a high cost . " People tend to wait a long time before funding , " she said . " Accessibility is one of the major pain points . "   If more devices are built with people of all abilities in mind , price points could lower .   Horsley also suggested that cost , as ever , remained a barrier in terms of letting people become fluent with technology .   " People who have a disability tend to be left out in terms of digital literacy , " he said . " Some of the figures from Australia show that families that do n't have disposable income to buy those assistive technologies , to buy iPhones ... get left out . " The Australian Council of Social Service reported that in 2013 - 14 , 510,900 adults with a disability in Australia were living below the poverty line . Ultimately , designers and engineers who do n't think broadly and inclusively about who their technology can work for will miss out on a whole world of inspiration . " I think people who have a disability have such a unique perspective on life , and that itself is really a drive towards innovation , " Tran said .