Created by the City of Cape Town , the # YouthStart Challenge aims to provide young Capetonian entrepreneurs with an opportunity to either grow their business or get it off the ground . The challenge was announced on the DA 's website . This year 's # YouthStart Challenge will also feature a digital solutions category for entrepreneurs and SMEs operating in the space . " Unemployment , poverty and inequality are some of the biggest challenges in South Africa and young people , in particular , are bearing the brunt , " said the City 's mayoral committee member for safety and security ; and social services , Alderman JP Smith . " Entrepreneurship has been identified as one of the ways to tackle it . So , in the spirit of making Cape Town an opportunity city for all , we 're providing an opportunity to access resources and skills that will help young people to develop their business ideas and provide services and products to consumers , while at the same time growing the economy and aiding job creation efforts . " The # YouthStart Challenge came about from research pertaining to challenges that young entrepreneurs face , namely , access to capital as well as equipment , tools , and space . Other issues facing young entrepreneurs also include lack of experience , and confidence , as well as a lack of mentorship and contacts . The programme supports entrepreneurs in commercialising , expanding as well as monetizing their businesses through their training and mentorship programme . " A successful business needs more than just a capital injection . Development through training and mentoring is crucial for anyone starting out . Having access to those who have gone before and using their experience as a sounding board or cautionary tale is priceless , " said Smith . The top 100 entries would be offered 10-weeks after - hours training , after that , 20 finalists will be selected to go on to the next stage . Furthermore , 10 startups will then go on to participate in a demo day with the top three startups being announced in June 2017 at a gala event . The programme is open to Cape Town residents who are SA citizens and between the ages of 18 and 35 . In order to be eligible , candidates are required to have a startup idea that is already creating sustainable jobs , or has the ability to . Entrepreneurs wanting to enter would be required to complete an online form and upload a video of their pitch proposal .