According to The National Association of Women Business Owners ( NAWBO ) , more than 9.4 million firms were owned by women , employed nearly 7.9 million people , and generated $ 1.5 trillion in sales in 2015 . In addition , 2.9 million firms are majority - owned by women of color in the U.S. , employ 1.4 million people , and generate $ 226 billion in revenues annually . In the tech world , women founders and leaders are heavily underrepresented and it 's going to take all of us to work towards change . To start , women founders need to know that there is a strong support system throughout the country filled with people who are cheering you on and are willing to roll up their sleeves and help you succeed - so keep going ! We talked with two women founders , Sara Morgan , the founder of Eleven Eleven PR and Leigh George , the CEO of Freedom , who have built a successful business and have some advice and encouragement for you ladies out there grinding it out everyday to grow your company . When asked about some of the most important learning experiences while growing a business , staying lean and trust your gut were at the top of the list . " When you 're starting a business , avoid spending money on things that wo n't directly impact your bottom line , " Sara said . " So many times I 've seen founders spend money on things that do n't really help them grow , like an extravagant launch party or costly team trips .    [ Another important lesson is to ] follow your gut instinct . Whether I 'm making a hiring decision or choosing which client to work ( or not work ) with , I have learned how important it is to go with my gut instinct , it has rarely led me in the wrong direction . If it does n't feel right , it usually is n't . " Leigh reminds startup founders to stay competitive in the market and true to your brand . " To stay competitive , you must constantly innovate , but no business today can afford to wait for perfection , " Leigh said . " If you aim for perfection , the market and opportunity will pass you by . I use iteration , experimentation and collaboration to develop new solutions quickly and test my way to success . "    " [ As for your brand ] to be successful , your brand needs to be as much about your clients as it is about you . I call it that sweet spot at the intersection of a brand 's purpose and clients ' passions . " Acquiring customers is one thing , but working the right customers can be motivating and help position and elevate your business . " Although there 's the pressure in a B2B business like mine to accept any client , I learned very quickly to only work with clients who are the right fit for me , " Leigh said . " Not every organization is a good match for my services and having a clear , distinctive brand helps me quickly identify the relationships that will work . By positioning myself as a different kind of agency that helps organizations innovate , I found I organically attracted clients who wanted to break from what they had done in the past . This taught me to stay true to my brand and not try to be all things to all people . " It 's easy to look back with 20/20 hindsight and say if only I 'd know now what I could have known then my business would have flourished earlier - but that 's life as a startup founder and all people can do is learn from other 's mistakes , experiences and wins . For Leigh , she encourages women to be fearless , learn from your failures and keep going . " [ My 20/20 hindsight is that ] I would have started my own company sooner . I had thought about it for years but fear always held me back . However , I realized that like any big life decision , I would never be truly ready and I just needed to do it . Have I made mistakes ? Have I fallen flat on my face ? Of course ! " Leigh said . " But I view these moments as learning experiences and take that knowledge and invest it back into the business to keep moving forward . You never will know what you 're capable of accomplishing if you do n't try . " For Sara , she encourages other women founders to reach out to each other and provide support and guidance where you can .    " Support each other ! I am so proud to represent a number of female - founded companies , " Sara said . " I love working with female entrepreneurs and I feel a true sisterhood with other women that know what it 's like to take a chance to pursue their dream . When you meet another female founder , go out of your way to try to help her . I promise , it will come back times ten . " Let 's face it , women just do n't take care of themselves as they should , these founders suggest for you to start making a commitment to your health in preparation for the long marathon known as startup life . " Remember to take care of yourself . The startup culture is so hustle - driven that it can be easy to think you need to work non - stop to be successful , " Leigh said . " I believe in working smarter not harder . Working with incredible efficiency means I can feel good about taking time for myself to exercise , meditate , eat well and get enough sleep ( ok I 'm not great there!)--all things you need to stay sharp , creative and innovative . " Read more about being a healthy entrepreneur at Tech . Co