During the month of February , elementary schools around the country will celebrate Black History Month and learn about Dr. Martin Luther King , who led a nonviolent movement to achieve legal equality for African - Americans in the United States . Perhaps more importantly , they 'll listen to his " I Had A Dream " speech , deemed one of the most moving and revered orations in all of human history . As for us , there are many ways to honor African Americans during this celebrated month . We can take the initiative to learn about those who have come before us , celebrate those working to create change , and take action ourselves to bring about a diverse and inclusive future . Kick back on the couch and expand your mind with all of the best sellers in black history . Learn about the sentiments behind the Black Lives Matter Movement , the accomplishments of women in science in the now movie Hidden Figures , or the life behind former President Obama .   A little community service never hurt anyone , and it definitely does n't hurt to encourage young people to become change - makers in their lives . The universal language of coding can help build bridges for many young people . Teaching kids to code , empowering them to learn , or imparting other leadership skills can help shape our future leaders . Taking the time out to inspire young people will lead to a better tomorrow . In product development , it can be easy to think about how your product will work for people like you . However , not all people are exactly like you . We all think differently and have different ways of experiencing products . This also goes for how you 're marketing your product . There is huge value in reaching out to potential minority and female users that not everyone capitalizes on . " We know that we ca n't change it unless we address it , " said DeRay Mckesson , a leader in the Black Lives Matter movement . One way African American history has been swept under the rug is the lack of shared stories of African American 's accomplishments and struggles . The stories future generations will read about are the ones we deem the most important today . The injustices of the present and past can not be remedied if they are n't known by all people .   When in need of inspiration , take a look back at some of the African American entrepreneurs of the past . They overcame extreme racial discrimination to be successful . History 's entrepreneurs paved the way for us to be successful today . They struggled to make a better future . Read their stories and learn how to get through your own struggles and challenges to be your own success . One way to celebrate black history is to recognize the history that is being made today . The black founders that surround us are forging new paths for people of the future . Looking at the other the other entrepreneurs around you is also a good way to bring about improvements and potential collaborations . Gathering people together regardless of skin color was not always possible . Taking the time to come together as a team is also good for morale and building the culture of your startup . Food is a great way to bring people together . You could even serve Mac and Cheese , because its creation can be credited to its creation can be credited to James Hemings , one of Thomas Jefferson 's slaves , as one of the first to serve American mac and cheese .   Make sure that you are seeking diversity in the workplace . There is no one way of doing things . Through promoting diverse minds to have a place on your team there will be more creative contributions . When people are surrounded by people that look like them , they probably wo n't question practices and seek change . Improvements can only come with some change . Read more about diversity and African American founders making moves in tech on Tech . Co