Hosting an intimate event last night at Cape Town 's Workshop 17 , Singularity University ( SU ) announced more granular news of its upcoming Cape Town and Johannesburg chapters . Better known as SingularityU , the Silicon Valley - based think tank and startup incubator began life in 2009 , and is partnered by companies like Google , NASA and Deloitte . The University has previously graced South African shores with competitions geared towards the country 's inventors and entrepreneurs , but the opening of its two new chapters is its latest venture . According to SU 's Cape Town chapter figurehead Michael Fichardt , SingularityU " is a place where the world 's brightest minds convene to tackle the world 's toughest challenges " . The University breaks down these challenges into twelve distinct sectors , from energy to waste , to food to health . Both Cape Town and Johannesburg will be a focal point for SingularityU this year , as the University launches chapters within both cities . These chapters aim to " build community " , introduce bright minds to one another , and " hopefully solve big problems as well " , according to Fichardt . " Critically , it 's local innovation that makes the world go round , " Fichardt explains , suggesting that the change and disruption caused by technology in today 's world can also be remedied by technology . And of course , bright minds . The University will be planning a number of events , with the first taking place on 5 April , focussing on the future of health . Johannesburg 's mirror of last night 's event will take place on 7 March . " Other events will happen later in the year , " Fichardt adds . Alongside the events , Fichardt also announced a number of competitions available for South African entrepreneurs and inventors to enter . The University will be running a local version of the Global Impact Competition ( GIC ) , which will see the winners head to Silicon Valley to partake in the GSP programme . The competition challenges entrants to use exponential technology to solve world problems . This year , the focus of the competition is climate change . " We 'll be choosing ten finalists for a pitching event , and we 'll be sending one finalist to SU for the summer , " Fichardt explains . The GSP is a nine - week course designed to group like - minded problem solvers together , in order to better formulate solutions to the worlds ' problems . In many ways , it 's a concentrated startup incubator , and can lay claim to birthing the likes of Made In Space and Matternet . Overall , the prize is worth around US$ 40 000 . Entries open today ( 2 March ) , and close on 10 May. The GSP begins in mid - June . Fichardt also announced that a version for schools , which will be modelled on the GIC and will be supported by the Allan Gray Forbis Foundation . It will be hosted on SU 's Alan Gray 's Blue Helix system , and will be run in all SA 's provinces in addition to Namibia , Swaziland and Botswana . Winners from each region will join a boot camp in Cape Town , and the ultimate winner of the boot camp will visit SU Silicon Valley for a week . Finally , SU also announced that a Singularity U Summit will be held in Cape Town this year . Although dates are n't yet confirmed , Fichardt notes that SU is aiming for the final week of August . " We 'll bring the full faculty from Silicon Valley through to South Africa , and have a two - day conference about tech , and about world problems , " he explains . Experts in the fields of cybercrime , autonomous driving , and artificial intelligence are expected to make the trip , among others .