The Berlin - based early - stage investor Project A just announced the closing of its second fund of EUR140 million . In addition , the operational VC is about to close a vehicle of another EUR40 million dedicated to follow on investments in its portfolio companies . In total , Project A raises its assets under management from EUR80 million to EUR260 million . The investor base of the new fund includes leading players in Germany 's digital industry as well as established " old economy " companies . Alongside existing investors Otto Group and Axel Springer SE , the fund is also backed by the European Investment Fund ( EiF ) as well as by renowned German companies and entrepreneurial families behind companies like ProSiebenSat.1 , Ravensburger and Oetker . Individual investors include Rolf Schromgens ( co - founder and CEO of Trivago ) , Rene Kohler ( founder and CEO Internetstores ) , Holger Hengstler ( co - founder dress - for - less ) , and Brian O'Kelley ( founder and CEO of AppNexus ) . Thies Sander , a founding partner of Project A stated : " We are pleased to have such a diverse range of investors in our new fund . The last five years have proven our operational model is really valued and impactful , and we are looking forward to further expanding our portfolio this year . " Founded about 5 years ago , Project A made more than 40 investments and today is an established player in Europe 's venture capital landscape . Project A 's portfolio includes companies such as Lostmy.name , WorldRemit , ZenMate , Treatwell , Tictail , Catawiki , Contorion , Spryker , and KRY . The total portfolio value is currently calculated with more than EUR2.5 billion , with Project A holding between 10 and 35% of shares . Since founding in 2012 , Project A pursues a truly operational approach which is kind of unique to Europe 's VC scene . Project A employs a unit of 100 specialists in areas like software engineering , digital marketing , business intelligence , sales , design , and recruitment . These experienced professionals actively support Project A 's portfolio companies to lay the groundwork for sustainable growth and success . The Berlin - based VC co - invests with renowned international investors on a regular basis . Among them are Google Ventures , Accel Partner , Index Ventures , Balderton , Creandum , or Lerer Hippeau Ventures . The investment focus of Project A currently expanded to digital health , B2B , and vertically integrated consumer brands . Initially , the Berlin - based VC invests between EUR300k and EUR5 million and reserves up to EUR10 million for follow - on financings per company . Project A invests mostly in European companies .