Analysts and traders are flooded with information on stocks , funds , market volatility , you name it . Accern wants to lend some method to the madness by monitoring news sites , blogs , social networks , and more to curate the most relevant financial content . The New York - based startup announced a $ 1.2 million seed round today to onboard new customers . " Right now we 're working with many multibillion dollar hedge funds and banks to consolidate all their existing news subscriptions feeds into a centralized news platform , " wrote Accern cofounder and CEO Kumesh Aroomoogan , in an email to VentureBeat . " We then curate the news using our artificial intelligence technologies to help them find the most relevant stories on stocks they are tracking . " The company says it tracks more than 300 million websites , social networks like Twitter and Tumblr , and SEC filings in real time . Learn how developers and brand marketers are using AI to grow their businesses , at MB 2017 on July 11 - 12 in SF . We cut through the hype to show how marketers are achieving real ROI . Get your 50% off Early Bird ticket by May 19 ! According to Aroomoogan , about a dozen financial institutions are using the platform , typically paying $ 500 per user per month . Aroomoogan would not disclose customer names but did say there are about 500 active users . Accern is n't alone in providing insights on financial news . Although Dataminr is the most obvious competitor , data services like Reuters and Bloomberg could arguably also be considered competitors . But Aroomoogan disagrees . " Bloomberg and Reuters are not competitors but a complimentary news service for Accern , " he wrote . " A lot of firms are already subscribed to these news sites , and we are basically consolidating that data on our platform . "   The startup also plans to expand beyond financial services . " We 're looking to build out the platform to help clients understand the buzz around internal controversies , " Aroomoogan wrote . " It would be beneficial for a brand like United , who 's been under fire recently , to streamline all the messaging and reactions around the incidents . " He named IBM as the company 's first non - financial customer but declined to reveal specifics of the deal . Investors participating in today 's round included Rostra Capital , VYL , Gurtin Ventures , 26 Ventures , Belmont Capital , and Affinity Investment Group , as well as several individual angel investors . Accern will be using the new money to hire more data scientists and engineers and to increase the AI capabilities of its platform to monitor more news . Founded in 2014 , Accern currently has 12 employees .