The fast pace of technology has made the modern workforce more mobile and interconnected and opened up the way for community office environments to develop and evolve . In an era of flexible working hours , coworking culture has turned into a global movement attracting freelancers , remote workers , and other independent professionals to work and interact , while enjoying high - quality office amenities at an affordable price . This global phenomenon reached Hungary around a decade ago and ever since then the Hungarian capital has successfully fulfilled the growing demand for these communal workspaces . To ease your decision and to provide you with a short overview , we 've compiled a list with 10 of the coolest coworking spaces in Budapest . And here it is : Kaptar : Located centrally in the heart of the city , Kaptar has been the second home for many locals freelancers and digital nomads due to its speedy wifi , comfy working areas and productive work atmosphere . Fully equipped and designed to meet the needs of the individuals , Kaptar also provides a seat service for your company and event space . The endless flow of fresh coffee as well as storage units for bikes is just an addition to the wonderful inspiring community . Cost : Packages vary from EUR140 to EUR250 per month .    Kubik : From a workdesk to a virtual office , Kubik has a lot to offer . Clients come from various fields : freelancers , startups , non - profits and even large companies , the agenda is full of events and their international network and partner program can open a lot of doors . Showers are also available for those who want to go for a run in the nearby Margaret Island . Cost : Packages vary from EUR65 to EUR145 per month .    Loffice : Host of the 2017 Coworking in Hungary conference , Loffice has established itself as a key hub in the Hungarian startup scene with a total of five offices - four in Budapest and one in Vienna . Available 24/7 , access to workstations or offices of your choice as well as mentoring support such as business and export advice . Networking possibilities at an indoor sky bar or cocktail terrace . Cost : Multiple monthly packages are available , full package starts at EUR145 . Greenspaces : If you are looking for the eco - friendly community of Budapest , you might find them in Greenspaces . Greenspaces provides green , healthy , and happy coworking office space in the centre of Budapest . The large converted apartment with 35 desks , offers everything you and your business idea need . It a low cost solution for office space tailored at your needs . Cost : Full package starts from EUR130 per month . Impact hub Budapest : The Hungarian branch of the Impact hub is a coworking space , a place for ideas , training , and social and creative transformation . Winner of the Coworking Office of the Year 2017 , this community - driven workplace offers its members a place to connect , collaborate , explore and turn their ideas into businesses . Offering not only workdesks and offices , but programs , workshops and events as well . Cost : Multiple monthly packages are available , varying from EUR15 to EUR115 . Mozaik : If you are freelancer looking to break the monotony of working at home , a startup looking for your first office , or a small business moving to Budapest and in need to get your team up and running quickly ,   Mosaik might be able to help . They offer a platform for learning , connecting and growing , by organising an academy , providing fully equipped coworking space and networking opportunities . Once you are tired from all the work , table tennis and football table are free to use at any time . Cost : Packages vary between EUR130 and EUR150 per month . The Hub : Focused on the tech community , the Hub offers 24/7 access 365 days a year to your workstation or furnished office . Its central location , along with the high - speed internet make it a popular destination for startups , entrepreneurs , freelancers , digital nomads , creatives , techies and micro - businesses . Known for its fashionable interior filled with avant - garde wall paintings , the Hub is the perfect go - to place for those who want a combination of concentration , creation , and yet relaxation . Cost : Multiple monthly packages are available , full package starts at EUR125 . Cowo : Known to add a touch of seriousness to its setup , Cowo is home to many digital nomads , entrepreneurs and freelancers in IT related industries . If you are trying to get some work done far from the crowded cafes or offices , this is the place to go . Available 24/7 , it has all the necessary office equipment for your use such as a printer , scanner , high speed Wi - Fi , free local calls , cloud computing , computer backup , PC support etc . Cost : Multiple packages are available , varying between EUR95 and EUR130 per month . Coffice : As combination of coworking office and a cafe , Coffice easily became the spot for urban digital lifestyle . With a cafe downstairs with well - separated tables suitable for work and office area upstairs , equipped with presentation rooms and workdesks , Coffice offers relaxed and inspiring atmosphere . Cost : Multiple daily , weekly and monthly packages are available , full package starts at EUR95 . I - office : Situated in a former industrial building in one of the most dynamic neighbourhoods of Budapest , I - office attracts young and enthusiastic crowd . Easily accessible via public transportation , the place offers renting an office , workstations and meeting rooms . Accountancy and legal consulting , safe deposit and bike parking lot are just a plus . Cost : Multiple daily , weekly and monthly packages are available , full package starts at EUR85 .