Investing platform OpenInvest has just raised $ 3.25 million in a seed round led by Andreessen Horowitz .   Termed a " social impact investing platform , " the company is one of the first VC - backed Public Benefit Corporations and operates by allowing its users to select issues they care about ( climate change , LGBTQ rights , you name it ) and then builds a custom portfolio to yield returns in alignment with the customers ' personal values . OpenInvest is grown 85 percent since its soft launch last September , so Tech . Co used their seed round announcement as an opportunity to have a chat with OpenInvest CEO and cofounder Conor Murray about just how OpenInvest 's unique approach to socially responsible investing works . Read about startups raising capital in your city at Tech . Co Conor , alongside cofounder Phil Wei , was inspired to start their investing platform after starting with one question : How could they have the biggest positive impact on the society around them ? " We tried to figure out how we could have the biggest impact on society given our backgrounds / skill sets , " Conor tells me . " After a few months of exploring , and talking more with [ Josh Levin , a sustainable finance leader from the world 's largest environmental organization , WWF ] , who has a deep background in that space , we saw a massive gap between the things people care about and their investments .   " We believe that if we allow people to align their investments with social and environmental issues , we can create a massive driver for positive change . " OpenInvest helps investors influence the world using their values . But does the platform embody any values itself ? Conor had three of them on hand : " Our values are honesty , transparency and integrity , " he explains . " OpenInvest is empowering people to drive activism with their investments . We are a public benefit corporation , meaning we are a mission - driven company that values impact as well as adding value . OpenInvest is aligned with what it cares about : the public good . " But could the platform 's values ever be at odds with potential investors ' values ? " For VC investors , we explicitly look for financial backers or partners that align with our mission , " Conor says . " In regards to our customers , it is possible given that both our issues and a client 's are always evolving , but with a dedication to complete transparency , we will always be very clear and up - front about these . " OpenInvest 's goals are an interesting take on the " philanthropreneur " movement : They aim to balance social consciousness with a financial benefit . Their investors are certainly optimistic they 'll succeed : " OpenInvest is democratizing a movement that has already captured a significant percentage of institutional dollars , but in a much more powerful , granular , and approachable way , " Alex Rampell , general partner , Andreessen Horowitz , mentions in their press release . Time will tell if OpenInvest can pull off this approach , but cofounders are definitely fulfilling their original goal : They 're shooting for the biggest positive impact on the world around them . Read more about eco - friendly startups at Tech . Co