Just a few weeks after leaving her post as vice president of Twitter 's Asia Pacific business , Aliza Knox has been appointed chief operating officer of Australian adtech startup Unlockd .   Twitter 's first employee in Asia , the Californian Knox has worked across Singapore and Australia . She previously held senior positions at companies including Google , Visa International , and Boston Consulting Group , and serves on the boards of Scentre Group and SingaporePost .   Unlockd cofounder and chief Matt Berriman said Knox 's experience and networks will be an " enormous asset " as the company looks to hit its growth targets ; it aims to give $ 500 million back in value by 2025 . " Aliza has an amazing track record of business growth and accomplishments regionally and globally . The team and I are excited about her joining as we expand our business into other verticals like content streaming and geographies including Asia , " he said . Knox added that with Unlockd 's growth pipeline in emerging markets such as Asia Pacific , she is confident her skillset will add value to the business .   " I have always been drawn to businesses with a strong entrepreneurial spirit that are creating value for consumers in unique ways . What is especially appealing about Unlockd is its revolutionary business model where each party in the ecosystem wins , combined with visionary leadership and a strong sense of purpose , " she said . Unlockd last April raised $ 15 million in Series A funding , with Berriman stating in October that the startup would be looking to raise $ 30 million more as it pushes for further expansion . The startup 's technology offers customers of partner telcos the ability to earn extra data or calling credit in exchange for viewing targeted ads on their lockscreens ; it has deals in place with a number of international telecommunications companies , including Boost Mobile in the US and Tesco Mobile in the UK , and is soon set to launch partnerships in the UAE and India . Unlockd also announced a new offering last month through a partnership with MTV Trax in the UK , giving users free access to the premium version of the music streaming app in exchange for the viewing of relevant ads and offers . The new partnership comes as competition for its core service emerges , with New Zealand startup Postr also offering customers of partner telcos extra credit or data in exchange for viewing ads . The startup has two partnerships underway , with Skinny Mobile in New Zealand and Optus in Australia . The market , of course , is huge : global mobile ad spend is expected to grow to US$ 215 billion by 2021 . Mobile advertising grew 48 percent to reach US$ 80 billion last year , and is expected to account for 52 percent of total digital ad spend by the end of 2017 .