The world is going video . Whether you 're a marketing director or a budding journalist , every study on the books is pointing to high quality streaming capabilities as a necessity for future success . However , for most companies , getting on the video bandwagon has been decidedly more difficult than previously thought , as slow download speeds and latency problems have made the medium noticeably more complicated . Fortunately , one company is doing something about it , and they just closed a massive Series A funding round led by KB Partners . PhenixP2P is a Chicago - based startup providing real - time video streaming solutions to companies around the world . By allowing businesses to focus on content with their proprietary platform PCast , PhenixP2P is providing a wholly necessary service to the content world . And a funding round that sizes proves it . " Phenix 's cutting edge real - time video streaming technology fills a huge void in the marketplace , where demand is growing at exponential rates . We were extremely impressed by the caliber and experience of the engineering and leadership teams and the products they have developed , " said Keith Bank , managing partner of KB Partners and new PhenixP2P board member . The sizable Series A will be used to scale the company as much as possible . With a seemingly endless variety of needs to meet in the video sector , PhenixP2P has their work cut out for them when it comes to addressing these solutions . Fortunately , with all this funding , they 'll be able to tackle all of them in due time . " Several significant pilot projects are now underway across a variety of categories such as professional sports , broadcast news , eSports / video gaming , social media , and online education to name a few , " said Kyle Bank , director of business development at PhenixP2P in an interview with Tech . Co . " We are working diligently to become the go - to provider of real - time video content delivery . " In addition to further developing their video streaming platform , they 'll also be aggressively accelerating their sales efforts and adamantly educating the market on the importance of latency - free video solutions . They 'll also be able to make significant hires in the business and engineering side of the company , opening the door to more growth and innovation as time goes on . PhenixP2P participated in Tech . Co 's SXSW Startup Night just a few weeks ago , impressing judges , investors , and your 's truly on the way to a successful pitch . If you want to enjoy some of their success , make sure to apply for our Startup of the Year competition for a chance to compete at Innovate ! and Celebrate 2017 in October . Read more about budding startups here on Tech . Co