For its latest trick in India , Amazon aims to help startups in the country sell , market , and deliver their products and gain more visibility . Amazon announced Monday it is bringing its global startup program Launchpad to India . The India Launchpad portal is live with products from over 400 startups , of whom 25 are India - based .   The company has also partnered with Nasscom , Government of Maharashtra , Indian Angels network and several bodies and venture capitalists to help startups on policy and financial sides .   SEE ALSO : Amazon makes it easier for Indians to buy international products Through Launchpad , first unveiled in 2015 and now available in seven regions , Amazon partners with startups and sells their products on its giant ecommerce platform . Additionally , Amazon also helps startups market and promote their products .   The program will also enable Indian startups to sell their products oversees , said Amit Agarwal , Vice President and Country Manager for Amazon India .   Some products such as Sphero and Eero have previously used Amazon 's Launchpad platform . The Launchpad has helped over 1,200 startups launch products worldwide , with over 4,000 products in storefront , Jason Feldman , Director Global Innovations for Amazon said at the event .    Image :   Manish singh / mashable india " Amazon launchpad is a great step from Amazon for the startup to sell its product online through Amazon , " said Parv Sharma , an analyst at Counterpoint Research . We spoke with several of the partnered startups . True South , for instance , makes nutritious coffee powder in pouches that is ready for serving after a customer adds hot water .   Seven Sense Technologies makes interesting electronic gadgets such as rings that serve as a fitness tracking device . A representative with the company told us that they previously launched their products in the US and Europe markets through Launchpad program .   Another startup called Lechal makes tiny cuboidal devices that can be added to shoes . These devices also serve as fitness tracking devices and require charging once after 20 days of usage . ' Blink ' smartwatch from Bangalore - based Witworks , which was first unveiled in late September , has also been launched on Amazon Launchpad platform . All of these startups told us that they also sell products through other channels , but are heavily relying on Amazon for discoverability and marketing . A representative with Amazon India emphasized that they expect to see plenty of more startups join the platform in the coming days .  