The stats around diversity in the wider global tech ecosystem are still poor , with stories of bro - focused company cultures rife and reports , such as this analysis of how VCs talk differently about men and women who pitch them , emerging with seemingly depressing regularity . In the face of all this , however , women in the community have been working hard to make it easier for other women to join in . From Girls in Tech to Springboard Enterprises , the homegrown Girl Geek Academy and Like Minded Bitches Drinking Wine , it seems there has never been more support for women looking to launch their own startup . However , Holly Stephens felt there was a gap and decided to fill it with her own group , Triangles . Blending an online forum with networking and educational events , Triangles looks to be more of a results - oriented network that looks beyond just the tech community to also incorporate women in small business , encouraging members to connect and collaborate , and learn from each other . The idea was born out of Stephens ' own debates over the years over whether she should stick with the corporate world or venture out into the world with her own business . " In the back of my mind , I always knew I was n't really meant for the corporate world ; I used to work for Google , the most amazing company in the world , and I loved it , but there was something in the back of my mind saying , I 'm not meant to be doing this , " Stephens explained . Having worked on a couple of side projects before starting at Google , she nevertheless did n't leave the idea of entrepreneurship for long ; at Google she worked on a project called the Digital Garage , which aims to train small businesses in digital marketing . After moving to Australia to work on Android Pay for a while , the itch to pursue her own business always there , Stephens decided last December to start looking beyond the tech giant and started doing some freelance digital marketing work for some small businesses . Going over the internal debate she was having , Stephens realised there must be other women having it too . " I thought , there must be more women out there who feel like I do but are n't as close to or as knowledgeable about the startup world as I am , but if they could be , and could get access to people and know where to start , they could do this too , " she said . So , Stephens set up a quick landing page for Triangles - " you do n't start building stuff unless you know there 's anyone interested , " she said - and wrote a blog post , and within a day or two she said she had had around 50 people contact her . A little while later she got the domain name and opened it up for sign ups . About a month on , there are around 300 women and men on the Triangles network . The platform incorporates a network - wide feed as well as specific hubs , such as Questions and Groups . Here they can share and find resources such as tools , books , podcasts and other things that may be useful in helping someone get a startup off the ground . Along with the online element will be face to face events , through which Stephens said she wants to " bring the entrepreneurial spirit into one room " and really get the results - driven networking going . With the platform free to join , Triangles will be monetised through events . Linking up with partners including Springboard Enterprises Australia and Tank Stream Labs , Stephens is keen to ensure there is always a learning element to events , and as such is developing material for workshops that will take participants through each of the steps that one goes through in starting a business , from how to refine your idea to writing a business plan , finding financing , customer validation , and so on . The majority of members so far are based in Sydney , however there are others across Australia and dotted around the world , some coming from the UK and US . They are at various stages of their business journeys , with some still working in corporate roles and feeling out how to go about starting a business on the side , while a couple who have built big businesses are there to offer advice . " I just want to make women feel that , if they 've got that ambition inside of them that they want to do something else , they should n't be so scared to do it . I want to make it easier for them . "