When Chris Hyams , president of job search platform Indeed , heard a pitch from three of his young engineers recently out of college to create an app that mimics the hunting aspect of Pokemon Go but for real world job postings , he initially dismissed it , believing he had heard it all before . Hyams joined Indeed in 2010 to be the company 's senior vice president of product . He 's held the role of president since October 2015 . He told Entrepreneur that while the idea of Job Spotter , which was pitched it to him during the company 's Indeed University program , had been kicking around Indeed for some time in one form or another , it had never gained any traction . Fortunately for the company , the trio of intrapreneurs , Nicholas Towbin - Jones , Jiehua Liu , and Hoe Lee ,   defied their boss 's reluctance . The team built the prototype by biking around Austin to get images of storefronts and help wanted signs .   " The more successful a company gets , the more likely we are to think we have everything figured out . It 's easy to think that we got to where we are because we are smart , " Hyams says . " But the minute we are convinced of that is the moment that innovation dies . It turns out that the smartest thing I did last summer was to not to say no to new ideas . " With the app , users can share potential job opportunities in their communities from small businesses -- who may not usually post job listings online -- that look for new hires with a well - placed " help wanted " sign . Once the app is downloaded , users can take a photo of the signs and storefronts they see , and once it is approved by Indeed , users earn points that can be put toward gift cards . Indeed then uses GPS location data " to match the photo to a database of businesses to get the name and address , and we use [ data from the photo ] to automatically extract phone number , email and other information from the image , " Hyams says . It 's a way to crowdsource Indeed 's job postings with an element of gamification . Since Job Spotter 's U.S. launch in July , Hyams says that 100,000 users have submitted more than 500,000 new jobs . The last several months have seen Job Spotter become the second most popular source of job clicks in the U.S. , he says . The app has also launched in Australia , Canada and the U.K. The company , which boasts of listing some 16 million jobs and 70 million resumes on its site , has its eye on more markets all over the world . " With Job Spotter , we have demonstrated here in the U.S. that there are hundreds of thousands of jobs that until now could not be found online , " Hyams says . " The potential is even greater when you think about other markets around the world like India , China and Indonesia where there might even be more jobs offline than online . There is always more that we can do to help people find jobs . "   Nina Zipkin is a staff writer at Entrepreneur.com . She frequently covers media , tech , startups , culture and workplace trends .