Global SME marketplace lender Bitbond today announced that it received a commitment from Obotritia Capital to fund loans worth EUR5 million through its platform . Additionally , Obotritia invested an undisclosed amount of equity to acquire a stake in Bitbond . Bitbond was founded in 2013 and shortly after its start the young company was able to win investors like Point Nine Capital . In 2015 we mentioned Bitbond as one of Europe 's hottest FinTech startups . A year later , in September 2016 Bitbond launched its automated scoring mechanism at Finovate New York . Ealier this year , the Berlin - based company secured EUR1.1 million additional funding . With the help of the new debt commitment , SME loans from European prime borrowers will be funded instantaneously on Bitbond . According to Bidbond , this will reduce the time it takes for business owners to apply and receive a loan to 30 minutes . The equity investment from Potsdam - based Obitritia will be used by Bitbond for further product development and marketing . Bitbond plans to continue growing its user base with online sellers and small businesses who need working capital financing . Over 1,700 loans worth EUR1.4 million were originated through Bitbond since its launch in 2013 . 90,000 users from 120 countries registered with the service to date . Founder & CEO of Bitbond Radoslav Albrecht said : " The debt commitment by Obotritia brings Bitbond to the next level in our efforts to provide universal SME financing . The next step is to work with partners . Such partners could be online marketplaces who want to add value to their platforms by giving their merchants access to instant cash through Bitbond . " In October 2016 Bitbond received their own regulatory licence by German financial services supervisor BaFin . Bitbond uses the bitcoin blockchain for payment processing and is one of the few fully regulated and licenced blockchain based financial services providers . Individual and institutional investors finance the loans of small business owners via Bitbond and by that get access to attractive interest rates . Most of the platform 's borrowers are online sellers who run their shops on e - commerce marketplaces like eBay , Amazon or Etsy . Bitbond conducts a machine learning based credit check which uses the revenue data of merchants . The loans are mostly used for inventory financing . Check out the video below to learn more :  