I have heard about OptoForce many times in the last couple of years , lately in October , related to their new investment raised from Denmark . I accidentally bumped into and get acquainted with the CEO , Akos Domotor at an event last month in Budapest , and asked him for this interview . Since I already know one of their investors very well , DayOne Capital ( national winner of the ' Investor of the Year ' category in Hungary at Central European Startup Awards in both 2015 and 2016 ) , I also asked Aurel Pasztor to join the conversation . What is your personal story , Akos ? Where do you come from ? I am actually not one of the original founders , I studied both technical topics and business . After graduation I got a job at LEGO working in many different countries . After a while , I got a bit bored and had the idea of joining a smaller company for a better impact . The founders of OptoForce found me on LinkedIn , and soon after that I was offered with the CEO position after the second round of the interviews . Aurel adds : OptoForce was practically a university spinoff with 2 technical founders when we invested and even from the very first day the investors ( Finext Ventures and us ) had been looking for a CEO . First they got a headhunter who found a guy who looked perfect on paper , but that time they only had a technology without a defined product , and no idea how a product should look like . It was a long journey before we could find Akos and Peter Fodor ( + ) , the advisor of Finext Ventures was the one who had the feeling that however Akos was not perfect on paper , he was the one they were looking for . Who are your competitors ? As mentioned earlier , in the beginning it was hard to define the product , so we are actually happy to have competitors now .    It 's a relatively small industry , there is ATI Industrial Automation , pretty much the only one on the market from the USA , creating special sensors , but they never managed to make them user friendly as much as we do . Robotiq is a Canadian company who introduced their first sensors about the same time as we did , and I can also mention a Japanese company , WACOH - TECH . What would you do differently from today 's perspective ? The most important part so far was to find our market . We probably could have done it better , but the way we did it , trying to sell then see how the market reacted was a very useful way . The technology was very interesting in the beginning , but the sales and marketing skills were completely missing . Next time if I start a company , we will immediately start asking customers what they need . Who are the founders ? What is their background ? They are Akos Tar and Jozsef Veres , used to be fellow students , working together during their master studies and even shared their room . They started doing it as a pet project at the university and their biggest pain was how to solve the problem of robots making steps ( start walking ) as all the solutions out they were too expensive . Since there was no affordable solution to sense that a robot was balanced , they went on to their PhD studies and decided to carry on their pet project and kept developing it throughout their studies and after graduation they decided not to join a company but to start a company around it . They met an angel investor , Zsolt Szigetlaki who introduced them to Finext , and in the end they seed invested all together with DayOne . This first round was 600k EUR , the second one we have just realised was coming from Enrico Krog Iversen , together with another round of investment from DayOne and Finext . How does the team look like ? What is the size and the setup ? It is changing day to day , yesterday was 16 , today 18 . Most of the people are electrical engineers , computer scientists and some people on sales . Most of the production is outsourced and the top of that ( like calibration ) is kept in house . Can you tell a bit more about the business model ? We are now in the switch from selling to academia ( research institutes ) to selling through robotic distributors and system integrator to factories . How about your financials ? Our revenue figures : we have made 500k EUR revenue this year , and the plan is to multiply it each coming year . We have been close to cashflow positive in the last few months . How did you find each other with Enrico Krog Iversen ? He was looking for new investment opportunities . This industry is fairly small and well connected , and we got introduced to each other by Invest in Odense . Enrico had been in the industrial automation business and that 's what we were looking for as a background in our investors , so it was a very good match . How do you see your situation as a startup coming from the CEE region ? Was it more challenging to raise money in the Nordics ? Disadvantages , perhaps advantages ? I used to work a lot in Denmark , Danish people make things / decisions simpler . If we were in Denmark or Germany we would be probably much more confident in ourselves . On the other hand , it does help a lot that wages in Hungary are lower as we could hire more smart people from the same budget . I know about a company in Denmark with the same revenue stream and they have only 3 people hired full time , so we could hire 5 times as many . Aurel adds : it 's more helpful if a startup has direct access to industry players locally . We tried reaching out to big industrial players in Hungary but we had to realise that very often they were simply not the right people to talk to . Most of the decisions were made at the R&D departments in the headquarters . What is your next big goal to achieve ? We are now working very hard to attract system integrators / distributors - 20 of them signed up now , and we are reaching out to 50 early 2017 . To achieve that , we need products easier to use , and better software for more complex solutions . We are hiring engineers , software developers , mechanical engineers to build solutions for more types of robots . How much help did you get from your local investors ? The most important is that they have been forcing us to focus on the most important questions and provided us with external control to keep it up . Aurel adds : we usually do n't step into operational roles at a company , but now it happened and turned out well . We made many introductions , connected the company to other investors , though we had to turn some of them down , those negotiations also helped the company . Now as they are hiring the key people and we try to keep them on focus . Aurel : sitting on the other side of the table , what did you see in Optoforce that made you interested in them as an investor ? I first met them at an event called Startup Undergrund , and the previously mentioned angel investor Zsolt Szigetlaki was also very excited about them . No one we asked has ever seen similar technology before . The 2 guys looked very serious about their project , and seemed to be willing to work very hard for this . We never had any attitude issues that we sometimes had with others . These guys never really panic and keep on pushing it , which is great .