The Malaysian Digital Economy Corporation ( MDEC ) , a Malaysian government body tasked with transitioning the country towards a digital economy by 2020 , has announced the development of new digital startup hubs and incentives that it hopes will attract Australian startups to the country .   Four digital hubs are planned to be built , with startups operating within the hubs to be given access to global tech giants operating in the country such as Uber , Google , Microsoft and Alibiba , in addition to collaboration opportunities with the local startups .   MDEC CEO Yasmin Mahmood said that the hubs , which are to be run by the private sector , are intended for Australian startups both new and established . " We 're talking about startups that are operating from the whole spectrum , companies who are looking to get seed funding to develop their product and commercialise , all the way to the big companies looking to expand , " said Mahmood . Mahmood explained that the hubs are one of the MDEC 's initiatives to help champion the digital economy of the country , a process which is forwarded by startups . " We know the development of the digital economy is very much attributed to the startups who are taking up new innovative opportunities . Australian startups , from what I 've read and especially from what I 've seen , have a very good quality . Like in Malaysia , Australia startups are looking to adopt a global mindset , " said Mahmood . Hitting the global market is a key focus the organisation believes will not only help provide opportunities for evolving Malaysia 's evolving digital economy , but the Australian startups too , who will be able to use Malaysia as a springboard to expand into the wider region of southeast Asia and its network of accelerators and VCs . " It 's really a market that is ripe for consumer adoption as well as enterprise adoption . We 're moving forward with the proposition that we have to go global , and to do that involves moving beyond regions , " said Mahmood . The Association of Southeast Asia region , which encapsulates Indonesia , the Philippines , Singapore , Thailand , Malaysia , Vietnam , Laos , Burma , Brunei and Cambodia , is expected to grow at seven percent per annum , with GDP estimated to reach US$ 4.7 million by 2020 as the region pushes to become the fourth largest economy in the world by 2013 , according to a statement from Lao Prime Minister , Thongloun Sisoulith , issued last year . " It 's a low hanging fruit I 'd say , to use Malaysia as a launching pad into the Asia region , especially considering Malaysia has a solid market , " said Mahmood . " The whole digital economy has so much potential for disruptive business models to be created that tackle the emerging market . " Facing a massive decline in oil and export industry , Mahmood described the market troubles within ASEAN as unique compared to much of the western world , explaining that innovation hubs like Silicon Valley are , much differently , focused on things such as tackling the globalisation of China . " The western world does n't necessarily understand the problems of the emerging market . The hub will help connect Australian communities with ASEAN to help tackle some of these and help the market grow , " she said . To help incentivise Australian startups to join the new hub , the MDEC is offering a ten year tax exemption for startups that make the move , in addition to an easier - to - access " entrepreneur visa " , which will support both long and short stays in the country .   Speaking about the incentives , Mahmood said she hopes they will help draw not only new startups to Malaysia , but established startups looking to move , and mentors looking to work beside them .  