Anyone who 's somehow become the designated coordinator for pulling together office cakes , cards , and gifts for birthdays , farewells , and other occasions - you know it 's usually the same person every time - knows how time - consuming the task can be , particularly wrangling everyone in the office to sign a card and put in for the gift .   Here to help save time is Where 's the Card , helping users coordinate card buying , signing , and delivery in a big office .   As one might expect , the idea came to Esther Halvey from her own experiences organising group cards for various occasions in the workplace , from birthdays to farewells . " I always found the process pretty painful and a real time waster ; passing a card across multiple floors and buildings and trying to keep track of who had signed it , " she said . Halvey worked on a number of concepts while completing a course at the Founder Institute , but kept coming back to this idea , keen to create a simple solution to an existing problem . A user organising a card will head to the website , find the appropriate occasion and card they like , and fill in a form in which they can list the email addresses of those who need to sign a card . If a collection is required for a gift , they can provide bank details for the transfer of funds . Those whose emails were listed will then receive a notification asking them to go sign the card and contribute any money for a gift , which the card organiser can keep track of by logging into their account or choosing to receive notifications each time someone donates . Once the number of messages or funding amount is reached , the card will be printed and delivered to the organiser by the specified date , with the funds transferred into their bank account . Key to the service are the cards themselves and the artwork on them . " This is an important aspect for me as I see the product offering as not just a time saving and convenient process but also a unique and beautiful card that can be treasured by the recipient , " Halvey said . She explained she is currently working with a handful of designers to create a boutique range of cards that " fit in with the company 's voice while also offering enough diversity in terms of style and taste " . Artists receive a percentage of sale of a card featuring their artwork . Costing $ 20 , Halvey said the service is aimed at workplaces of any kind where they may be a " where there is a large group of people who value each other enough to mark life 's special occasions and milestones " . The company will also create a subscription offering for companies regularly needing cards . To further expand Where 's the Card 's offering , Halvey said she will be looking at adding gifts for purchase with the card , initially looking at vouches for department stores and later collaborations with florists and chocolatiers . Where 's the Card is just the latest in a line of startups to launch in the gift space . Sydney platform The Gift Concierge Co has created a personalised gift buying service for those that lack the time or inspiration to do it themselves , while The Gift Collective is an online platform effectively helping someone crowdfund their perfect gift .     Then there 's Thankly , an online platform looking to bring back the old school thank you note by allowing a user to personalise a note online that will then be handwritten and sent on to the recipient , with a small range of gifts also available for customers to send along with the note .   The handwritten factor is what the service is focused on ; Where 's the Card , meanwhile , prints its messages . Competing more directly with Where 's the Card are established players Yellow Postie and Moonpig , which offers personalised cards and mugs . However , these services are focused on cards and gifts being sent by one person rather than a group . The old school , traditional newsagent is also a competitor , and while the $ 20 fee charged by Where 's the Card might initially seem a bit steep for a card , a nice one could set you back up to $ 10 , while a larger card to accommodate more messages can cost around $ 15 . In a big office where birthdays and other occasions seem to come up every few weeks , the time saving for the person who is always stuck with organising the card and gift could be significant . " My primary goal for the online message collection solution is to offer significant time saving for the organiser and convenience for the signers . I also wanted to make sure that the recipient would receive a unique card , beautifully designed with a high quality finish , printed and delivered to their door . Ultimately I wanted to remove the headache but keep the love , " Halvey said . Over the coming months , Halvey will be looking to grow Where 's the Card 's customer base and look at expanding its offering .