Dutch mobile health startup SkinVision is proud to reveal its new algorithm that can detect most common forms of deadly skin cancer . Previously focused on detecting melanoma skin cancer , the app can now identify Basal Cell Carcinoma ( BCC ) and Squamous Cell Carcinoma ( SCC ) too , the first app ever to do that . Across the world , more than one billion people are at risk of developing skin cancer at some point in their lives . Helping them prepare is a selected group of dermatologists . For example 10,000 in the US and only 550 in the UK .   SkinVision 's new algorithm will help provide people with a means to assess moles for risk indication on demand to save time and lives . Users can download the app for free and can perform a number of free assessments as well . SkinVision establishes communication between users and their doctors to monitor skin lesions with a personal archive that can be used as reference during visits , saving time and improving efficiency for dermatologists . " Our mission is to empower people to early detect skin cancer , which is highly important for possible treatment options , " says SkinVision founder and CEO Erik de Heus . " We aim to save 250,000 lives in the next decade . " Melanoma is a type of skin cancer that forms in the cells responsible for skin pigmentation , known as melanocytes . Although it is less common than other forms of skin cancer , it is much more aggressive . In the United States alone , melanoma accounts for more than , 10,000 of the 13,000 deaths caused by skin cancer each year . Research shows that 5,4 million non - melanoma skin cancer cases are identified every year in the US . SkinVision has now expanded its remit to identify and alert people to these non - melanoma cancers , like BCC and SCC cancers , too . " Our new algorithm can recognize nine in every 10 cases of deadly skin cancer , " de Heus continues . " This is because our latest research shows 88 per cent sensitivity towards melanoma skin cancer . Our work has been scientifically tested in the leading dermatology clinic at Ludwig - Maximilians - Universitat Clinic in Munich , Germany . SkinVision is available for both iPhone and Android ( Samsung S4 and up only for now ) here . The app can be used worldwide except in the US , although the company indicates it will be arriving there soon .   