South Australian space startup Fleet has raised $ 5 million in a Series A round led by Blackbird Ventures , with participation from Earth Space Robotics , Silicon Valley firm Horizon Partners , and Atlassian 's Mike Cannon - Brookes . Founded in Adelaide in 2015 by Flavia Tata Nardini , Matt Pearson , and Dr Matthew Tetlow , the startup is working to launch a network of more than 100 nanosatellites to create a global network enabling low - bandwidth connectivity for Internet of Things ( IoT ) devices ; its aim is to connect the 75 billion devices expected to be online by 2025 for free . Italian Tata Nardini , a space engineer with the European Space Agency and Dutch research institute TNO , said though there is a lot of chatter about the potential of connected devices , little action is being taken to make things reality . " We 're designing a technology infrastructure that will underpin the new industrial revolution . It will connect all corners of the globe to create a digital nervous system of devices , " she said . Tata Nardini explained the startup chose to launch in Australia as the country is home to " many of the industries that need this type of technology the most " . " Farmers , environmentalists , mining and oil engineers , and logistics professionals will all greatly benefit from the data and opportunities a switched - on planet produces , " she explained . " Our goal is for industries to use this technology to make real , tangible efficiency improvements to the ways they operate and address issues ; be it measuring the effect of climate change on outer corners the Great Barrier Reef , or tracking important cargo like aid as it journeys across the Indian Ocean . " The fresh funding will help bring this vision to life , going towards building the startup 's first nanosatellites and exploring of global opportunities as understanding of the technology 's potential grows : Fleet is working in a similar space to international companies including Kepler Communications , Astrocast , and Sky and Space Global , an ASX - listed Israeli startup . Cannon - Brookes called the startup a " prime example of Australian - led innovation at its best " . " They 're rare , but every so often an idea cross your path that really gets the adrenaline pumping . Fleet answers one of modern society 's most difficult but important questions : how do we bring all the devices and technology we 've created together to work as one ? " Blackbird cofounder Niki Scevak , who will be joining the Fleet board as part of the firm 's investment , added , " We invest in Aussie startups with big ideas who want to be the best in the world . The team at Fleet have the credentials and strategy to make their dream a reality . Space was traditionally the province of governments but now startups can solve our largest problems through satellites and rockets because it 's so cheap and accessible . " Fleet is just one of a growing number of Australian space startups , which have flourished largely without government support ; while a recent report found every industry segment in Australia uses space - derived services and data in some form across their business activities , Australia does not have a national space agency . A white paper released in March by the Space Industry Association of Australia ( SIAA ) estimated that , with its 0.8 percent share of the global space economy , the Australian space sector currently produces annual revenues of between $ 3 - 4 billion , employing between 9,500 to 11,500 people . The SIAA believes the establishing of an Australian Space Agency by the government to lead a " cohesive national space strategy " could see these figures double within five years , with the Agency 's long - term aim to capture 4 percent of the world market within 20 years . Tata Nardini believes Australia is missing out by leaving space out of the conversation around innovation . " Australia is one of the largest economies in the world to not have its own space agency . Projects like this are crucial to our future as they test our creativity and ability to think big . If we 're not always asking what 's next , we 'll never really have a place in the innovation game . " Fleet plans to launch the first of its nanosatellites next year .