Making sales is rarely a piece of cake for most businesses , but for startups in particular , who have to sell products or services that the marketplace may not yet see the need for or even understand , sales is a particular challenge . The job is made harder by the fact that it 's difficult to find talented people who actually want to do it , with most attracted to established companies where the commissions are plentiful . Looking to help ease the pain by connecting startups in need to qualified salespeople looking for new career opportunities is Melbourne startup SalesTribe , founded by Graham and Doug Hawkins . The idea came to Graham while researching his book , The Future of the Sales Profession . Through his research , Graham found that one million of the 4.5 million business - to - business ( B2B ) sales jobs in the US are projected to be axed by 2020 ; translated to Australia , that trend will affect 96,300 B2B salespeople . " Consequently , salespeople need to reinvent , repurpose and reconnect themselves . As the market continues to shrink for B2B salespeople , startups require flexible , on - demand sales capability to achieve those initial , early revenue streams needed to survive and grow , " Graham said . " Startup founders with little or no sales experience often fail in managing specialist sales resources as they do n't know what to look for . In addition , the dynamic nature of startups requires agility to flex up and down as the business changes direction , grows and expands . " Thinking both sides need the other , Graham went about creating SalesTribe . For startups , the first step is having SalesTribe provide them with an assessment of their go - to - market plans , with recommendations made around how they can optimise execution with people , processes , and technology . " We offer a full service sales and marketing capability to assist startups that do n't know where to start when it comes to sales and marketing . SalesTribe gives founders their time back to focus on building their business , while we drive sales and help them grow , " Graham said . Salespeople , meanwhile , are taken through " a range of assessments and programs " , explained Graham , that allow SalesTribe to vet them , and understand their skillsets and how or when they may be able to add the most value to a startup . Salespeople can also work with mentors to help them become " startup ready " . Among the other offerings available to salespeople are a ' personal branding package ' for $ 900 , a resume review for $ 470 , a LinkedIn profile optimisation for $ 200 , and career planning for $ 600 . Some of these services may seem like they would be self explanatory , but they 're there working with the idea that salespeople often do n't know how to sell themselves , particularly to the buzzword - loving tech crowd . SalesTribe then matches the startup - ready salespeople with startups and small businesses in need , able to provide businesses with talent on a flexible or on - demand basis . In looking to bring salespeople on board , Graham said SalesTribe is looking for talent that fits three broad personas , ranging from the older , more experienced sales professional to the younger , tech - savvy millennial , reaching them through channels such as LinkedIn . The platform launched earlier this month , announcing it has also been selected to take part in the UK Government Department for International Trade 's Global Entrepreneur Programme , which helps startups relocate their businesses to the UK . " Compared to Australia , the UK has eight times the market size of salespeople and three times the market size for startups , " Graham said . " The UK DIT Global Entrepreneur Program is already providing significant value to SalesTribe with market entry planning , contacts , and advisory . " As it gears up to launch in the UK later this year , SalesTribe will look to continue building out , testing , and refining its offering locally .