Having a mentor while building a business can help founders get through the tough challenges of startup life and give them a heads up on what 's around the corner . Jacqueline Ros , CEO and founder of Revolar , talks about what she learned at Techstars and having Brian Cornell , Target 's CEO as a valuable mentor . This summer , I was honored to have Brian Cornell , the CEO of Target , as a lead mentor to Revolar . I had no idea what to expect when I first met Brian . I had , of course , read all about him and was excited to meet the man who had gone undercover in his own business to hear out what his guests truly wanted . I 'll never forget our first meeting . I wanted to learn from him what it took to be the CEO of a massive business and a ubiquitous brand . My first question was , " What does it take ? " His answer caught me off guard and still makes me smile . In essence , Brian told me that a CEO needs to be very self - contained , calm in the midst of chaos , and you ca n't let what is happening in one area impact your ability to focus on what is in front of you . During my first few weeks at Target HQ , I noticed employees taking a lot of pride . I saw his team take pride in having stood on the right side of history , pride in the innovation he was bringing to Target . But I knew that could not have been an easy decision to make , so I asked him , " Why ? " His answer moved me . Brian walked me through the history of Target . He told me it was in their DNA to give back to communities . Since day one , Target has given 5 percent of their profits back to the community . That 's millions of dollars every week ! I also learned that Target was also the first retailer to feature African American models in its advertising ? Brian taught me that it was in their DNA to care . During our next meeting , I asked him about communication and how he bests communicates new things to his team . Communication in any business is difficult , but I could n't even fathom what that looks like with 340,000 employees . He told me to keep my communication simple enough that a child could follow along . People have a million things running through their minds and it 's your job to make the message as simple and concise as possible so that a wide and diverse group of people can immediately follow along . Continuing our discussion on presenting information , Brian told me that I should break it down into three areas : thoughts , learnings and actions .   There 's one thing about mentorship that I think many people misunderstand . It 's not a take - take relationship and it 's not about having someone 's ear . Mentors are friends whose advice you actually take . Mentorship is friendship with a focus . They are the friends that help turn your hurdles into leaps of progress . My team and I have made friendships this summer that will span the rest of our lives . We 've made friendships that have positively impacted not only the trajectory of our business , but helped us grow as individuals . The best part ? Mentorship , like friendship , does n't end just because the program is over . Thank you to Brian and to all of our Target mentors for an incredible summer I 'll never forget ! Read more about the benefits of a mentor at Tech . Co . This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .