Payments company Square has revealed some figures around its growth in Australia since the local launch of its card reader last year , stating that over 60,000 businesses are using one or more of its products . Its suite of products includes the Square Reader , payment APIs , Square Invoices , and an employee management tool . The company , which opened an office in Melbourne in late 2015 , stated that it is seeing an average weekly growth of 13 percent in transactions processed with Square across its product range . Within that , it is recording 10 percent weekly average growth in invoices paid online with Square and over 20 percent weekly average growth in ecommerce transactions processed through its APIs . Ben Pfisterer , Square 's Australia country manager , said , " Australia 's 2.2 million small to medium - sized businesses are critical to productivity , creating jobs and helping to grow our economy . " We 're proud to be building a powerful and accessible point of sale and payments ecosystem that enables over 60,000 Australian sellers to leverage one or more of our world - class products to grow their businesses . " The company reported particularly strong growth in Tasmania and Western Australia , where it is growing at an " above average rate " ; both states have recorded over 100 percent quarterly average growth in new sellers . Square 's target market has traditionally been sole traders and micro and small businesses , with over 80 percent of sellers on Square not accepting card payments through a traditional payment terminal prior to using Square . However , Square is also seeing a " strong push upmarket " facilitated by the launch of new features such as employee and location management , allowing employers to clock in and out and managers to see transactions processed by each employee to better schedule employees . Also recently released was a virtual terminal , allowing users to key in card details via their browser and send a personalised digital receipt to customers , while its payment APIs and integrations with 25 partners , including ecommerce partners such as BigCommerce and WooCommerce , have also opened up another market . While Square launched in the UK just this past March , Australia has been an advanced market for the company since it arrived . Australia was the second launch market for its Build with Square APIs , introduced locally earlier this year , and the Square contactless card reader , introduced last September . Pfisterer previously told Startup Daily , " [ Australia is ] seen as a really advanced market not only from a small business perspective ... we know Australian businesses are some of the most tech - savvy there are with a great uptake of new tech , cloud - based systems , but also from a payments innovation perspective . " Among the products that have not yet made the move down under , however , are Square Payroll and Square Capital , a small business lending service . Square is due to report its earnings for the first quarter of 2017 later this month . It reported earnings of US$ 452 million for the last quarter of 2016 , surpassing the expected US$ 450 million . The company also last month agreed to hire several employees from shuttering social networking startup Yik Yak and acquire a non - exclusive license to some of its intellectual property for US$ 1 million .