Entrepreneur has affiliate partnerships so we may get a share of the revenue from your purchase . EXCLUSIVE : $ 10 Course Promo Expires May 27 , 2017 There 's always something you can add to your small business repertoire . Whether you 've gotten your MBA or built up your entrepreneurial knowledge through the School of Hard Knocks , you ( like every entrepreneur ) should never stop improving . These 10 Udemy courses ( if you 're not already familiar with Udemy , it 's basically a database of online courses ) will help shape you into a better , stronger entrepreneur with no real risk because they 're all $ 100 or less . You do n't have to be new to entrepreneurship to benefit from a small business guide . In The Essential Guide to Entrepreneurship , world - renowned entrepreneur , advisor and investor Guy Kawasaki lays out his essential steps for starting a company and building a brand identity that keeps customers coming back for more . The course includes interactive exercises and answers to frequently asked questions like " When do you know when you have a winning idea ? " and " How do you stay positive during the lows and stay calm during the highs ? " As an entrepreneur , you 're not only leading the employees you take on as your business grows , but you 're leading those within your industry and the communities that rally behind you . In Leadership : Practical Leadership Skills , international speaker Chris Croft covers all the bases : how to motivate , delegate , stay confident and more . You may see the term " growth hacking " all over the internet , but do you have a good grasp on the topic ? For the low , low price of free , Growth Hacking : Free Tools for Small Business Owners will show you how to create sticky headlines and titles , maximize your website 's SEO and build better customer relationships to rapidly grow your startup . It 's the ideal class for small business owners and new entrepreneurs . Every business owner wishes they had just a bit more time . In Become a SpeedDemon : Productivity Tricks to Have More Time , you can learn a number of tricks to communicate more efficiently with others , complete tedious everyday responsibilities and automate tasks to save time throughout the day . Fans of the course say it helped them find extra time to spend with family or pursue a hobby . Blogging sounds easy , but only the pros truly benefit from it . That 's why Write Awesome Blog Posts from Scratch is a great course -- it can help turn any entrepreneur or content creator into a blogging pro regardless of what platform they use . It focuses on content marketing , different types of blog posts , organizing blog content and crafting the perfect headline . It 's a speedy - but - thorough way to master blogging fundamentals so you can capture and engage leads online . Google is obviously helpful when it comes to driving traffic to your site , but it is n't the only way to get eyeballs . With Easy Ways to Increase Traffic Without Google or Linkbuilding , you can uncover and utilize online marketing techniques that do n't rely on Google 's search rankings . The class includes step - by - step videos and supplemental resources so any entrepreneur can take advantage of its curriculum . How do you know if you have a winning business idea ? This bestselling Udemy course will tell you . In Idea Validation : From Idea to Paying Customer in One Day , you can develop a product idea , learn how to run assessments with potential customers , confirm customer problems and more . The course even takes you beyond the validation stage and teaches you how to get your first product sale using an interest page . Contrary to popular belief , email is still a highly popular and effective marketing method for businesses of all industries . Turn it into a top priority with Email List Building : 4 Systems to Grow Your List , which helps you drive traffic to your site , compel visitors to sign up for your email list and use email management tools to organize your efforts . Former students of this course particularly appreciate how the class only provides straightforward , actionable information . Social Media Marketing 2017 is known as the most comprehensive social media marketing course on Udemy . Not only does it cover Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn , YouTube , Pinterest and Google+ , but it also offers tips on social media automation , customer service on social platforms and social for public relations . Anyone who completes this course will receive a badge they can add to their company 's website to better attract and compel visitors . Full disclosure : This one 's mine . But , what 's the use in being a successful entrepreneur if you do n't help pass on your knowledge to the next generation ? In coordination with our book , Kidpreneurs : Young Entrepreneurs with Big Ideas , my brother and I created Kidpreneurs Academy that teaches small business skills to kids aged seven through 12 . The course goes over brainstorming business ideas , building a business plan , creating a budget and more .   With the myriad of courses available online today , it 's easier than ever before to round out your entrepreneurial skills . Have you tried any of these Udemy courses ? What classes have helped you become a better entrepreneur ?   Matthew Toren is a serial entrepreneur , mentor , investor and co - founder of YoungEntrepreneur.com . He is co - author , with his brother Adam , of Kidpreneurs and Small Business , BIG Vision : Lessons on How to Dominate Your Market from Self - Made E ...