Mobile and wireless startups are in high demand . After all , one of the biggest mobile priorities for enterprises today is a focus on cloud integration . However , that does n't mean life is easy for them . Wireless startups need just as many funds , networks , and mentors as any other aspiring business . So I hope you 're reading , mobile innovators : Here 's the South by Southwest event you need to check out . Startup Lunch : The Wireless Meetup is a Saturday SXSW event by Mobile Future and Tech . Co . Participating wireless startups and innovators will get a chance at one of the biggest boosts an entrepreneur can get : a mentor chat with an industry insider . At this fourth annual for SXSW wireless innovators , you can grab lunch while enjoying one - on - one mentor sessions with industry leaders . They 're pre - scheduled , so you 'll get a chance to sign up for one as soon as you RSVP . Mentorship helps fresh - faced entrepreneurs learn how to listen to the right instincts ... and ignore the wrong ones . It 's a point driven home by Invisionate founder and CEO George Stepancich , who once phrased it like this : " Founders have a tendency to drink their own Kool - Aid and can convince themselves it tastes good when perhaps it needs more or less sugar . " But if the Kool - Aid in this analogy is mobile technology , what is the " sugar " that must be considered ? Perhaps it could refer to the impact of your mobile app . Hopefully , your app can help make the world a better place . Perhaps one of the larger concerns the Mobile Future mentors at SXSW hold is for the future of the industry : Can mobile apps continue helping solve social issues in the cultures that they exist in ? Socially beneficial apps can appear in many forms . Take DugalDiabetes , a mobile app that uses machine learning to improve the speed , ease and accuracy of insulin dosing . Also socially useful : GoKid , a car pool app , and PhoneFlare , a non - profit campus safety app that texts friends and family your GPS location if you 're in danger and calls your school 's safety dispatch if on campus . Then there is Smackcap , a hit - detecting skullcap   that wirelessly detects and delivers hit information in real time to our mobile app . All these apps have been honored by Mobile Future in the past , thanks to variety and depth of their social impact . Drop by the SXSW event to chat with a mentor about the future of mobile apps , and learn how your idea could potentially help out a wireless world . RSVP here .