Oracle is as famous within the tech industry for its legal department as it is for its ubiquitous database software . The company 's lawyer - heavy reputation was immortalized in this classic comic by Googler Manu Cornet : Manu Cornet / Wikimedia Commons At a media event at Oracle 's Silicon Valley headquarters , co - CEO Mark Hurd told Recode 's Kara Swisher that the switch to cloud computing -- where customers rent functionally unlimited supercomputing power and applications from companies like Oracle -- has required Oracle to rethink this approach , at least a little . ( Swisher 's full conversation with Hurd will be featured in a forthcoming episode of the Recode Decode podcast . ) Hurd uses the example of ride - hailing app Lyft , a flagship customer of Oracle 's accounting and financial cloud software . " Historically , " Hurd says , Oracle would write " big contracts " for customers , the procurement department would vet it , lawyers for both sides would negotiate the terms , and that would be that . But startups like Lyft do n't have a formal procurement department , or the same kind of IT buying process as those big Fortune 500 companies . Oracle co - CEO Mark HurdOracle It means " we ca n't show up with lawyers and stuff , " says Hurd . And so , Hurd explains , Oracle took all the terms that would be in the normal contract , and made it something in which a customer can simply " click to accept " -- sort of like the iTunes consumer terms of service . In the standard contract negotiation process , says Hurd , customers would usually ask for special terms , and " 80% of the time , if if you asked , you got them . " Now , Hurd says , Oracle includes most of those special terms into that " click to accept " contract , streamlining the whole process . This move makes it easier for Oracle to bring customers on board , quickly , Hurd says -- which is good , given the company 's ambitious , but somewhat controversial , play to topple Amazon Web Services , the intensely profitable arm of the Amazon retail empire , currently considered the cloud to beat . Indeed , Hurd credits much of Amazon 's success with its ability to bring customers onto their platform without ever having to talk to a salesperson : " I think they 've done a good job creating a frictionless acquisition process for customers . " Visit Markets Insider for constantly updated market quotes for individual stocks , ETFs , indices , commodities and currencies traded around the world . Go Now !