Entrepreneurs , techies , and anyone with an appetite for innovation began to crowd the halls as the SXSW Interactive Innovation Awards announced the winners of its competition . Thirteen awards and six special honors were given to exceptional innovators of all fields , including sustainability , music , healthcare , communication , and security . The competition also brought with it for the first time the second annual David Carr Prize , given to a writer , journalist , or even blogger that submits the most innovative essay blending culture , technology , and new media . The final ceremony also inducted Kara Swisher , cofounder of Recode , into the SXSW Interactive Hall of Fame , making her the sixth person to be given the honor . The awards were given to innovators that offered something that excelled in creativity , form , function , and overall experience , except for the People 's Choice Award . Those who attended the Innovation Award Finalist Showcase on March 12 voted for the innovator they saw as deserving the award . A panel of judges that comprised of experts in the industry deliberated over the rest of the awards . If you 're interested in learning about the companies that took home these awards , check them out below and make sure to visit their websites : This innovative needle - free jet injection platform is licensed from MIT and transforms the drug delivery experience for patients suffering from chronic disease . This mobile job matching app uses a ' blind recruiting ' strategy to circumvent unconscious bias and facilitate diversity recruiting . Fun fact : Blendoor was the winner of 2015 Tech . Co 's Startup of the Year Competition . Apply for our 2017 competition here . Blendoor wins 2015 Tech . Co Startup of the Year 3Doodler Pro is the world 's first professional 3D printing pen designed to meet the demands and ambitions of creative professionals - architects , engineers , designers , artists , and more . This company produces 3D audio and modular technology for audio professionals and high end consumers . HOLOPLOT Wavefield Generator can be used to " illuminate " complex venue geometries to reach only the audience , avoiding critical reflecting sections . Blinker is a mobile app that changes the way you discover , sell and purchase cars . This company creates revolutionary software centered around encryption that safeguards 3D assets and intellectual property for artists . This interactive online documentary tells the personal story of a young Aboriginal woman dedicated to preserving her endangered Indigenous culture through language . These on - skin devices resemble jewelry and allows users to control their mobile devices , display information , and store information directly on their skin . These Multifunctional custom flooring technology use footsteps to generate off - grid electricity . BionicM has created the new robotic prosthesis , enabling amputees to walk easily , naturally and safely . Start your museum adventure at home with JourneyMaker , an innovative new digital interactive that empowers you to create your own one - of - a - kind adventure with works of art . This VR painting app enables users to sketch and create in an immersive 3D studio space , selecting from a palette of colors , brush - types , and impossible materials such as stars , ice and fire . Halo 2 hearing aids ( compatible with iPhone , iPad(r ) , iPod touch(r ) and Apple Watch(r ) ) allow users to experience music in a whole new way with pure , refined sound quality . Not every company had a category to call it 's own . These two startups were privileged to special honors because of their uniquely innovative ideas : The Sensel Morph offers a new generation of multi - touch interaction in the form of an input device that allows people to interact with computers and programs ( such as : Art Tablet , Midi Controller , Media Editor , Game Controller , Keyboard ) . This crowdfunding platform is dedicated to improving global public health , topics include : Basic Support , Infectious Diseases , Accidents & Injury , Women & Children , Healthcare Systems & Access , Chronic Diseases and Humanitarian Emergencies . For a complete list of SXSW Interactive Innovation Award finalists and winners , click here . Read more of our coverage of SXSW and exclusive interviews here on Tech . Co