Technology is all around us . It is now in almost every room of every part of our house , in the shops , our cars , and our workplace to boot . The effect of technology , in general , has lead to some massive , great advances within our lives . From something as simple as a diary reminder for me to write this article , to your alarm going off on your phone in the morning , ( or afternoon , if you 're looking to have a little siesta ! ) technology is inescapable . And this is , for the most part , super useful and handy . But what happens when you 're working with technology in the daytime and come home to it in the evening , and you 're in front of it at night . It starts to become a little too much , does n't it ? Technology has become intertwined in our lives but also in conversations when people talk about sleep . It is the idea that the natural element of sleeping is meeting the unnatural , man - made in technological advances and it could very well be messing with us when we try and reach the land of nod . Something I 've learned to do is look away from my phone early into the night . There 's a pretty good line of evidence to support the fact that the glow from phones has a negative impact on our minds right before sleep .   Phone companies themselves have started changing their own tech to accommodate this , inputting sleep mode into our phones and even laptop technology too . I do still think it 's a nice idea to slap away the phone when you 're ready to hit they hay and ready yourself for a few lovely hours away from the all - encompassing world of electricity . The one part of the world that technology hasn't quite mastered yet is our actual sleeping apparatus . Make sure you 've got the perfect bedding , a great bed , and super comfy blankets in order to get the best rest . You 're never going to be fit for work if you are n't even trying to sleep the best you can , so seek out the best of the best when it comes to getting some rest . One way in which technology may be able to be your guide in sleep situations is using apps to play soothing , simple music to you while you drift off . These type of sleep - therapy apps are becoming super popular , and the fact they 're becoming popular emphasizes the problem -- people are n't sleeping well enough . Be it whale music , be it a good old slow jam or therapeutic music the app is suggesting to you , make sure you give it a go .   Working within the technology world can be hard work , and working within a start - up can be tougher . New businesses are known for their thorough and ruthless working hours and their harsh boundaries between work life and home life , and now that we 've got the ability to work remotely through a laptop and smartphones , we 're in constant connection with our work , or at very least our emails .   I know it myself , sometimes you really ca n't help but look at your email , or check your computer when you hear that daunting ' ping ! ' coming from your device . But if you have stress issues or know that work can affect you even when you 're not there , try and get away from the email . Even allowing yourself to answer calls but ignore emails can significantly reduce the way you think and act about work during home life . Stress within technology is a major factor of work currently and it 's because we 're so close to our employers that we feel a duty to them , and this can often run through to our sleeping pattern . They 're just a few little ways in which you can try and make bedtime a little more relaxing . You 're never going to be at the top of your game if you 're not fully rested and recovering , so what is worse ? Being away and at 50 percent or turning off the tech and returning to full fitness ? I know which one I would prefer , and it is n't a hard choice .