Startups are n't all free food , goodie bags and foosball tables , and neither are they solely staffed by developers and entrepreneurs . They encompass a wide spectrum of cultures and career opportunities . " The nice thing about that is that every startup is looking for something different , so there is a startup out there that is looking for your skill set , " says Hepburn . Her preferred description is the one proposed by Paul Graham , the computer scientist and venture capitalist behind Viaweb , the world 's first application service provider ( ASP ) : " A startup is a company designed to grow fast . Being newly founded does not in itself make a company a startup , nor is it necessary for a startup to work on technology , take venture funding or have some sort of exit . The only essential thing is growth . Everything else we associate with startups follows from growth . " " It does n't matter what your skillset is or what they do , they all only want one specific thing , " says Hepburn . " Humans . They 're trying to foster their own culture , and every culture will be different for every company . What 's really cool about this is that now more than ever it is not only about what you know , but who you are as a person . What do you bring to the table ? What are your skills ? What is your demographic ? " You need to start thinking about what it is . Not every startup is looking for the free agent forward thinking innovator who loves autonomy , never needs to be managed , can sit on a beach in the Bahamas and get all the work done . Not every startup is looking for that . " If you showcase who you are an as individual they can see how you 'll fit into the culture and interact with the team . " There are so many startups out there and finding a job regardless of where you 're looking can be really hard and time - consuming , so you need to start identifying what it is you actually want , " says Hepburn . She recommends that startup jobseekers write a list of whatever they liked in their previous jobs and studies , whether it 's work tasks , office environment , colleagues or social aspects and to then do the exact same thing for the things you hated . Highlight the non - negotiables to establish your professional priorities Traditional recruitment agencies and CV libraries such as Reed , Monster and Indeed are n't always the richest sources of startup jobs . The reason why ? " It 's bloody expensive , " says Hepburn . " It costs the company anything between 10 - 20 percent of your annual salary to hire you through a recruitment company . Most startups do n't have that money , and even if they did , they 'd rather spend that money on something else . So they 're using alternative methods . " Recruitment agencies are n't entirely barren plains , but they 're time - consuming to search and a CV rarely reveals who you are . Job boards yield fertile lands . They allow recruitment agencies to post relevant roles or let you apply directly to the hiring company . AngelList , Jobbio , Unicorn Hunt and Tech City Jobs all advertise a wide selection of startup jobs . Tech mailing lists are another avenue , and the production costs force companies to post their job advertisements strategically . " The chances are if you 're reading a mailing list , you 're the demographic they 're looking to hire , " explains Hepburn . " So take a punt and apply . " Do n't neglect to search through a company 's cheapest place to advertise : its own website . The list of operating startups is constantly changing . Tech Britain provides a comprehensive map of the country 's startup community and lets user search by industry to find the sector in which they 're most interested . Even if a company that you love is not advertising a role , you can reach out to them regardless . If it does n't result in a job immediately , it may still do in future . Startups tend to grow organically , expanding an idea devised by friends into a team composed of former colleagues and acquaintances . " A lot of hiring through startups happens through a referral process of people they know , " says . " So how do you get hired ? You get into their network . " You do n't have to stalk them at their yoga class . Networking events take place every day . They can be found through Meetup groups such as Find a Tech Job , communities such as Circle , and mailing lists devised by working spaces or organisations such as General Assembly . The events often centre on a talk , but the networking drinks afterwards provide a better chance to meet people and learn about their companies . Even if it does n't lead directly to your dream job , meeting people who have found theirs can help teach you how to get yours . At the very least , being an active member of a community will be a useful addition to your CV . The CV needs to reflect the requirements of the job that you 're applying for , so it may need modifications for different individual roles . Cover letters are another important document to attract a potential employee 's attention . " I say short and sweet but you need to not only tell them why you are good for the role , you need to tell them why you chose them , " Hepburn suggests . " Why out of all the startups in the world , do you want to work for them ? People want people who want to work there . It 's hard , it 's long hours , it 's smaller teams , people have to get their hands dirty , so you need to write in that cover letter why it is . " Lacking a specific skill does n't mean that you ca n't learn it . Sometimes showing your interest and passion is more important than your qualifications . Global corporations may boast massive HR departments , but they 'll likely be small ones at a startup , if there 's any HR team at all . The head of the department will often be the person responsible for recruitment . " The marketing team needs to grow ? The marketing manager is probably looking for a candidate , " says Hepburn . " They have a full - time job to do and they have to recruit you . Once you 've joined , their workload will probably drop , but they 've got to get the work done . So if you ping them an email , drop an application and you do n't hear back , it does n't mean they do n't like you . " Recruitment is a skill and they might not have the time or training to do it efficiently . Sometimes when startups are growing fast they hire new roles without knowing exactly what they are looking for , so talk to them and offer your own advice . They 'll value your feedback and honesty even if you think that they do n't need you . It might lead them to remember you when they 're looking for a more appropriate role . Whichever part of the application of the application process you 're at , do n't be afraid to follow up . Hepburn likes to receive an email reminder a week after the initial contact . " But then I also have a three strike rule , " she adds . " If after three times they do n't get back to you , move on . One , they obviously know whether to respond , and two , you 've got better things to do . " Do n't burn your bridges if you do n't get your job , as they may still want you in the future . Staying in touch could have further career benefits . " Keep that connection open , stay in their network , " says Hepburn . " One , they could actually phone you up at a later date and you could go work for them , and two , the industry is actually smaller than you think and they could refer you into other roles . "