Nine startups pitched on stage during Techstars Seattle Demo Night . ( Techstars Photo / Tim Mezen ) .   After three months of intense work on their products , business models , and pitches , the Techstars Seattle 2017 class was finally ready to step into the spotlight . Nine innovative startups -- in a diverse array of fields ranging from serverless development to the seafood marketplace -- presented at Techstars Seattle Demo Night at the Museum of History and Industry last night . Now in its eighth year , Techstars Seattle is an incubator that provides early - stage startups with mentorship , guidance , and a $ 100,000 investment . It 's part of the international Techstars organization . " We now have more than 100 companies that have gone through the Techstars Seattle program since we started in 2010 and it 's just one measure of those companies ' progress , post - program they have raised , collectively , almost $ 400 million in capital , " said Techstars Seattle Managing Director Chris DeVore during the event Wednesday . Each startup made a compelling case but a handful of pitches stood out from the pack . Continue for our favorites pitches , photos from Demo Night , and read more about each team in recent installments of our Startup Spotlight series . Hazel CEO Wisam Abdulla delivered his pitch with the confidence of an entrepreneur who believes in his product 100 percent . His enthusiasm , combined with a clearly identified problem , explanation of how his startup is solving it , and demonstration of early traction made Hazel 's pitch one of the strongest in the bunch . Hazel makes enterprise software that helps companies get a bird 's eye view on how well its managers are performing and provides ongoing feedback and training resources to help leaders improve . " We 've designed a new and truly effective way for companies to develop and enable their managers , " Abdulla said . Hazel polls employees via Slack and other messaging tools to find out a manager 's strengths and weakness . The service then provides resources to help leaders improve over time and encourages strong managers to become mentors for others who need help . The service costs $ 50 to $ 100 per manager , per month . Abdulla and his co - founders came up with the idea for Hazel when they were building Canadian payroll startup Rise . Their customers constantly complained about how hard it was to train great managers . Abdulla experienced this struggle firsthand , in his first leadership role . When a top player on his team departed , he was left wondering what he could 've done differently as a manager . " We help companies develop and enable their managers in a personalized ongoing and engaging way so that no one ever has to manage like I did in my first year , " Abdulla said during his pitch . It 's no easy feat pitching something as esoteric as " solutions to build production - grade serverless applications " to a crowd that 's not exclusively software engineers . But it was clear from Stackery CEO Nate Taggert 's conviction and a ringing endorsement from Voyager Capital 's Diane Fraiman , that the startup is building something powerful . Stackery provides tools to help developers make apps that operate with the same level of efficiency and security as legacy applications , without relying on a server . " We 're at the beginning of a major revolution in infrastructure technology , " Taggart said . " Serverless is transforming the way modern applications are built and delivered in the same ways that cloud disrupted the physical hardware market . We have an exceptional team and we know this space . " Taggart and Stackery co - founder Chase Douglas started working together in 2013 when they joined forces to build the New Relic Browser . Before that , Taggart was a product manager at GitHub and Douglas was an engineer for IBM . " We know how to get our product in front of developers , " Taggart said . Swym CEO Arvind Krishnan impressed the crowd Wednesday with the amount of early traction his company is enjoying . The startup , which helps small and medium e - commerce companies track shoppers across devices , is seeing 30 percent month - over - month growth , adding 100 stores every week , according to Krishnan . All of those sellers are coming to Swym through Shopify and the startup plans to integrate with additional e - commerce platforms soon . Krishnan says Swym is on track to hit 10 million users in the next year . " This is just the beginning for us , " he said . " The real opportunity that we 're going after , the mid - to - large retailers , collectively did over $ 120 billion in sales last year . And these stores are running their e - commerce sites on a handful of platforms . " Swym allows retailers to re - connect with customers who have started a shopping session on one device and picked back up on another -- even if they haven't logged in . The software detects patterns between devices and users , creating a user profile with information on their social media profiles and shopping preferences . Krishnan brings with him experience working in product management for Microsoft and Yahoo . " Swym is changing the way consumer shop on mobile , " he said .