Find any city in America with a booming job market and affordable rent prices , and you 'll find a seemingly endless stream of young Millennials in search of the perfect place to live . Enter Alec Slocum : The CEO and cofounder at ABODO Apartments , an online apartment marketplace designed to help college students find their next off - campus rental . ABODO 's path to success -- more than 30 employees fill out their new office in downtown Madison , Wisconsin , following the company 's recently - raised $ 4.8 million in Series A -- came through a very literal example of an " elevator " pitch . The company nabbed a position in the highly selective accelerator gener8tor when Alec happened to share an elevator ride with the accelerator 's cofounder .   Here 's their story , as told by Alec himself . " We were on the fence about joining an accelerator , but we 'd built a rapidly growing business in Madison and wanted to learn sooner rather than later how effectively it could be scaled . We needed funding . But we also needed access to experienced networks so that our fundraising and scaling processes would be efficient . And gener8tor 's hands - on mentorship approach was perfect for us . " " Funny story . I was working at a coworking space in downtown Madison , and just happened -- really , this was not planned -- to find myself taking an elevator up to the 8th floor with gener8r co - founder Joe Kirgues , who was coming in to do a presentation . The doors opened , the doors closed , and I actually made an elevator pitch . Joe liked the vision behind our company and got us onboard . " " As first time entrepreneurs with a budding but local business , we mostly needed help learning to rapidly scale a business . Gener8tor provided mentorship as well as networking opportunities . It was really a level - up . And it introduced us to a ton of other young entrepreneurs , start - ups , and out - of - the - box thinkers ... not to mention investors . " " Know why you 're joining and what you want from the process . An accelerator is not an end in itself -- you need to know where you 're trying to go . " " The most immediate milestone for ABODO after graduating from gener8tor was about 325k in funding . But the connections and networking opportunities we gained through our time in a corporate accelerator have helped us out immeasurably in the years since we went through the program in 2013 . We raised $ 4.8 million in series A funding last summer , and have grown to a company of 33 . With 500,000 active monthly users and markets in 30 major American cities , we 're poised to keep growing . " " Refine your vision . Make sure your company is addressing a specific , real need , and that you 're addressing that need in a new way . Be concise and clear . You should be able to explain what you do in your sleep ... or an elevator . " Read more inspiring interviews here at Tech . Co .