Melbourne IT , the ASX - listed web hosting business , has announced its intent to acquire digital marketing agency WME Group for $ 39 million to further the growth of its small business ( SMB ) division . The acquisition will be funded through $ 9 million in debt funding and a raising of $ 30.7 million , with the buy expected to add $ 7.5 million to Melbourne IT 's underlying earnings for the current financial year . The company earlier this year completed the acquisition of Outware Systems for $ 57.84 million , and that of Infoready in early 2016 for $ 15.4 million to boost its Enterprise Services division . Martin Mercer , CEO of Melbourne IT , said WME Group is a " logical and strong strategic fit " for the company given managed marketing solutions are the growth engine for its SMB division . " We expect this powerful combination will enable us to grow [ average revenue per user ] at faster rates through enhanced cross sell and customer retention , as well as boost critical capability in search engine optimisation solutions and advanced customer account management , " he said . Founded in 1996 , Melbourne IT reports that its SMB division , operating under brands including Melbourne IT , WebCentral , and Netregistry , has over 450,000 direct customers and provides services to over 700,000 Australian businesses , generating over $ 90 million in revenue . Its Enterprise Services division , meanwhile , has revenues of over $ 70 million . As part of the acquisition , WME Group 's key management will remain with Melbourne IT . Having launched the company out of his bedroom with $ 400 in 2008 , founder Nick Bell said the time was right for him to exit and hand over the reins to Melbourne IT now , explaining it was important to him the company was left in the hands of people who " genuinely want to continue its growth " . " I have a number of other business interests both in Australia and overseas which I want to turn my attention to and help achieve the same growth that WME did , " he said . " I am also excited by the potential Australia is showing in providing the foundations for high - quality startups and want to become significantly more involved in nurturing and investing in the talent and ideas we have in our own backyard . " Also founder of app development company Appscore , Bell has invested in startups including Ideapod , Leadchat , and social influencer platform Tribe , which recently expanded to the UK .