During this year 's Dallas Startup Week , the Dallas Entrepreneur Center ( DEC ) hosted the 4th Annual State of Entrepreneurship in Dallas . The event highlighted 2016 wins , launches , acquisitions , and the mechanics of the startup ecosystem . A highlight of the event included the award for the Startup Evangelist of the Year .   Local entrepreneur Michael Sitarzewski took home the title for his work with Ignite DFW , inboundgeo , Dallas New Tech , Launch DFW and more . Leading up to the announcement , Trey Bowles , the CEO of DEC , described the changing entrepreneurial landscape in Dallas , more specifically on how collaboration is the new competition .   From accelerators and incubators to coworking spaces and larger corporations that support entrepreneurs , collaboration plays a vital role in the success of new businesses in Dallas and beyond . In Dallas , it takes a community to be successful . " People succeed , not by themselves . They succeed through a community , because that 's what it takes . Corporate America has a big role to play in entrepreneurship , and when you combine the two together , now that 's powerful , " said Nina Vaca , the chairman and CEO of Pinnacle Group . Jennifer Roberts , the head of digital products at Chase , shared how JPMorgan Chase partnered with a 5-year - old startup LevelUp to add an order food ahead functionality to Chase Pay , the company 's mobile payments product . " This is one example of how expertise from a startup can drive big impacts , " said Roberts . Due to these connections and collaborations , startups now more than ever are gaining more access to both funding and developing a viable exit path . In the past , companies like Brainspace , Ustream , buzzshift , and University Laundry have all successfully exited , and more recently startups such as Cariloop , Vinli , and StackPath have raised rounds . " If I had to pick any place , any place in the world , this is where I would be , " said Lyco Holdings President and CEO Bobby Lyle in a video presented at the event . " Dallas was , when I got here , and it is today , a city that is becoming . We are a city of becomers . We are going to become better than we were yesterday . We are going to become something that we dream about , and we are not afraid to undertake that . "   During the talk , Bowles , touched on two initiatives that focused on the next generation of entrepreneurs : Blackstone LaunchPad and Redbird Entrepreneur Center , both creating a stronger ecosystem that supports locals . For Blackstone LaunchPad in particular , $ 2 million will be set aside to support students at UT Dallas , connecting them into a network of more than 630,000 students globally across 20 universities . The program helps startups through mentorship , launching them , and then through growth . Read all our coverage of Dallas Startup Week at Tech . Co . This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .