The iPad was the first iteration of the tablet , bringing these sleek screens into our homes for the first time . While they provided the portability of a smartphone and the immersion of a laptop , the comparatively smaller size and limited speakers made its entertainment capabilities less than desirable . Fortunately , one startup has created a solution that will turn your iPad into the home theater system you 've always wanted . Amp by IOI , a Columbus - based startup , has developed a premium acoustic , low profile case , designed to give high quality sound combined with case - like , portable protection for iPad Air and iPad Air 2 . While the average iPad speaker can barely wake you up from a short nap , Amp by IOI has the deafening sound that only a home theater system can provide . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Sure , hi - fi sound on your iPad sounds great , but wo n't these speakers get in the way of the everyday tasks you want to accomplish with your favorite tablet ? Not at all ! The only thing iPads require more than better speakers is a quality case , and Amp by OIO provides both . This easily - attachable product uses its built - in stand , Bluetooth connectivity , and 7-hour battery life to impress anyone that questions your iPad 's home theater characteristics . After launching a supremely successful Indiegogo campaign that raised more than enough funds to get them started , Amp by OIO is currently showcasing at CES in an effort to create enough buzz to make this product the go - to case and speaker system for your iPad . If you 're currently at CES , check out their product to see the future of tablet enhancement .   Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded .