We were fortunate enough to attend the second Startup Grind Cape Town event of the year , headlined by Katlego Maphai . The Yoco co - founder tackled a variety of topics during the event , but we managed to interview him , covering rivals , Yoco 's future plans and more . " We are sort of ... mutually cooperating companies in the ecosystem , " he says of Snapscan . " If you look at Snapscan , they 've had to acquire merchants and the real drive from them now is getting consumers to pay . We 're strictly a merchant company . " Maphai says that you could potentially see a collaboration between the two firms . Confirmation of future plans , then ? Nope . " I 'm just saying there 's a possibility for that to happen , because we 're playing on both sides of the market , " he explains . If Snapscan is n't their rival , who is ? " Obviously , you have the traditional players , but they really focus on large and medium - sized businesses . And then you have third parties ... the likes of iKhokha , ZipZap . The traditional players also release ... the Absa Pebble , the Nedbank PocketPOS ... But in the end , our focus on software and data analytics ... is allowing us to sort of occupy a little bit of our own space . " The emphasis on analytics means that merchants can gain a few interesting insights . " You must understand for these businesses that never accepted a card before , they 've gone from paper to ... fully digital . And some of the things they can see now ... Transaction volume patterns over the course of the day , over the course of the week . So I remember one merchant being able to see this data and knowing , predicting when volumes would go up and they could staff according to this level . " Maphai adds that another insight they 're able to deliver is the number of foreign cards that have been processed , giving an idea of how many foreigners are visiting the merchant 's location . " There was an artist in Vereeniging . She spent a week doing a back - and - forth , asking lots of questions ... I 'll never forget , we eventually got the reader to her and her first transaction was for R50 000 , for selling a piece of artwork , " the Yoco co - founder adds , saying it helped the firm realise that every merchant counts . The firm has enjoyed plenty of success , so you would assume that they 'd branch out of South Africa . " Our focus is going to be on green field , emerging markets , where we wanna make a dent . We want to be market makers , not market participants . And there 's a lot to be done on the African continent . We 're also really interested in the Middle East ... we 've worked there before , we 've got good connections there , " Maphai elaborates . " So , that 's going to be the focus . In terms of where exactly , I see us doing stuff , potentially in East Africa , West Africa potentially , but we really need to manage our resources . " Of course , the African continent plays host to millions of unbanked people without cards , so could we see Yoco branching into the mobile wallet arena ? " We 'll definitely be doing that ... In the end , we wanna support multiple acceptance types through our point of sale , so business owners are n't having to reconcile various things and wasting time , " Maphai explains , adding that he wants to get business owners away from having to do administrative tasks . " Mobile money is key . The challenge with mobile money is that it hasn't made the evolution into an interoperable service . So it 's very country - based , and in that sense , there 's still a long way to go , " he answers . Maphai also foresees cards taking over from mobile money in some markets . Yoco obviously requires an internet connection to run , but Maphai says they are set to run an interesting trial to help merchants out . " So , dead zones and quality , we 're starting to run a pilot with that ... " he answers . Maphai has previously expressed his thoughts on fintech , as part of a panel discussion with editor Graham van der Made . But what does he expect to be big this year ? " In the context of South Africa , payments will continue to be quite a big draw card . Lending ... you 'll start seeing players really starting to build and develop . You also might start seeing some partnerships within the ecosystem , which is quite exciting . " As for African fintech trends at large , the Yoco co - founder says that remittances , Blockchain and consumer lending are expected to trend . " You might start seeing some adoption of Blockchain stuff ... purely because it 's interoperable , whereas mobile money is not . Consumer lending will continue to be a big thing , " he answers . Maphai adds that the " electronification of money " is a global trend to watch as well , saying that it will open the door for more fintech companies to emerge . The Yoco co - founder called on wannabe entrepreneurs to be ambitious , but " not in a crude ' let 's make money ' type of way " . " Be ambitious as in ... think about your products and whatever you 're doing beyond your immediate context ... Think of it in a multi - national context . And in order to do that , you need to look beyond your immediate resources and you need to start building bridges to other ecosystems , to other networks , " he continues . Maphai touched on the treatment of staff in the talk itself , expanding on it in our interview . " Just treat people like adults , really . This whole ... ' this is when you come to work , this is when you leave ' ... ( treating ) vacation as this gift the company is giving you and not seeing it as an opportunity for your team to recharge . These are very subtle things , " Maphai says of how not to treat employees . He adds that giving your team access to quality tools , such as " fast internet , a comfortable chair , a good desk " , suggests that you 're expecting them to be productive . " The moment you go cheap on these things , you 're sending a message and you ca n't be surprised when people are not motivated , or seeing this [ the job - ed ] as a very transactional thing . " What does Maphai think of rewarding staff of successful startups who have been with the firm since day one ? " We designed our own staff incentive scheme , which is equity based ... " Maphai adds . He notes that employees who were with the company since the beginning have seen the value of their equity climb . " What 's also been interesting is ... using this ( equity ) as a filter . We want people who want equity , and people who want equity know they can make a contribution to the company , they can make a dent , " the Yoco representative continues . Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Interviews