Many startups are currently testing out one of the most exciting new investment trends : blockchain - based initial coin offerings ( ICOs ) . Still unregulated and open for anyone to invest in , not just VCs , these token crowdsales are like Kickstarter campaigns for the crypto world . For those unfamiliar with the idea , startups wanting to build blockchain - based apps ( called ' decentralized apps ' or dApps ) can forge a new blockchain to build them on top of or can build them on established public blockchains -- such as Ethereum , which is currently seeing most of these projects . These startups pull in funding by selling off tokens of their own cryptocurrency . With the rising interest in blockchain - based services , it has become trendy to invest in these ' initial coin offerings ' . Currently these investments are based largely on speculation and fear of missing out , so most people throwing money at these projects are taking a big risk . There 's usually only one round of fundraising in an ICO , and this happens before the startup has even launched its solution . If the company has something concrete to showcase , it 's usually just a proof of concept or in alpha stage -- although there are a few exceptions , like Storj , that have come out of beta before starting their token sale . So most investors do n't have access to the information they need to make informed decisions ; they know very little about how the solution is going to work in the real world . The startups and projects running these ICOs usually put up a website ( they all tend to look and feel the same , by the way ) presenting their solution in a white paper . And often this is the scope of hobbyist investors ' due diligence , when they really should know the team and the product they 're building in detail , for example by reviewing their source code . There are sites like ICOrating that analyze and assess startups with an upcoming ICO . Still , millions of dollars are being sunk into these projects without a proper appreciation of the risk . Naivety could be one reason . It 's easy to get blinded by the massive successes of the Bitcoin and Ether currencies . As long as a new project is being built on a blockchain and has a token , it must be the next big thing , right ? With so many new projects launching ( 19 ongoing ICOs and 35 upcoming listed at the time of this writing ) , there are probably many that never should receive funding , like the OneCoin scam . Potential investors should also keep in mind that public blockchains , such as Ethereum , are currently platforms for experimental ideas . App makers are trying out all types of new things , and no one knows how this dApp landscape is going to look in a year or two . Although it 's getting there , the tech stack is n't quite ready yet either , something Fred Ehrsam illustrated nicely in this Medium post . It 's hard to believe that all of the new blockchains being built will have real world value and see adoption beyond a handful of crypto enthusiasts . And they need to go mainstream to build a strong enough community of people willing to help and promote them . But this means that the startup has no idea who 's investing in the crowdsale . The average random investor is likely placing bets on several projects due to hype and FOMO and the chance of a quick profit . He or she usually has a day job to take care of and is n't the idealist or evangelist who takes that active role that the company needs to succeed . Some of these developer teams will probably get acqui - hired by larger incumbents , and their concepts incorporated as features of existing products down the road -- similar to what Spotify did with its recent acquisition of blockchain startup Mediachain . Many others , of course , will fail . There is unlimited potential for ecosystems running on blockchains , and I ca n't wait to see where this is heading . However , due to the experimental , immature , and volatile state of this market at the moment , it 's probably not the place to invest if you do n't fully understand the offering . Editor 's note : For a different take on investing in blockchain startups , see : " The sooner you know about decentralization , the better you can adapt . " [ A version of this story originally appeared on the author 's LinkedIn blog . ] Trond Vidar Bjoroy is head of product development and implementation - Nordics at travel management company ATPI .