In decades past , entrepreneurs did n't have nearly as much access to data and information . Yet , that did n't seem to stop them from doing market research . They would pore over whatever information they had and tirelessly seek out more . The roles seem to be reversed today . There 's more information circulating around the internet than ever before , yet it seems like fewer entrepreneurs are taking the time to determine market viability prior to launching startups . Launching and growing a successful business can ultimately be simplified down to two key components . First , you need a valuable product or service that satisfies a pain point or provides significant entertainment value . Second , you need a target group of customers who want to purchase what you 're selling . Some entrepreneurs do well with the first part of the equation , but then fail to consider the second . They just assume that this target market exists and do n't do much investigative work . Unfortunately , this can be a costly mistake . " The gathering of data , information and facts toward the advancement of knowledge that can assist with decision - making is essential to all organizations , " says Arbour Group . A failure to gather data at any stage of a business - especially when just starting out - can be dangerous . The good news is that it 's easier than ever to conduct basic - level market research . The internet has opened up a wealth of opportunities for entrepreneurs and you would be wise to take advantage of them . Here are a few ways you can get started : Sometimes , all it takes is a few simple Google searches to begin your market research . You can find out a lot about potential competitors , palpable pain points , market size , and existing solutions with a few swift strokes of the keyboard . Will you find out everything you need to know about your target market by using a search engine ? Probably not ; however , it 's a fantastic place to start . You can gather just enough information to move into the next phase of research - which will likely be a more formal phase . Social media is one of the easier and more effective avenues for collecting information from customers . You can use it to gain firsthand feedback from individuals without having to set up formal focus groups or expensive studies . " It is important to be open - minded and adaptable when conducting market analysis as some of the feedback you hear may not be exactly what you were expecting and hoping for , " entrepreneur Shawn O'Conner mentions . " You may feel attached to your business idea and wish to change nothing about it , but after conducting a survey maybe you find that customers are looking for a slightly different service or additional features . " It 's possible that you 're unable to gather enough market research on your own . This is often the case when launching a totally unique product that the market has never seen before . In these situations , do n't be afraid of partnering with outside sources that specialize in market research . It 'll cost you , but it 's better to spend some money up front than to waste money down the road as a result of selling a product to a market that does n't exist . Market research is n't something you can gloss over . It 's one of the cornerstones of a successful brand and can mean the difference between launching a product that does n't sell and generating millions of dollars in revenue . There are obviously other pieces that play a part , but it all begins with an accurate and comprehensive understanding of your audience . Feature image : Paul Albertella via Flickr . Agree . Maybe it is the overload of general information that creates the impression to entrepreneurs that they actually know what the market wants . In strategic sessions , entrepreneurs often indicate that they will solicit feedback from customers as a core part of the CRM strategy , but are hesitating to get feedback from potential customers while developing the model and strategy .