President Donald Trump 's Muslim travel ban caused chaos over the weekend , but the full reach of its impact is still emerging . The executive order , which pauses travel to the U.S. for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries , as well as indefinitely halting the Syrian refugee program , saw people turned away at the border and pulled off planes . While not so immediately impacted , the ban will also have consequences for some Australian technology workers and their businesses . SEE ALSO : Thanks to Trump ties , # DeleteUber campaign grows on social media The CEO of HotelsCombined , Hichame Assi , holds both British and Syrian passports and has lived in Australia since 2008 . He told Mashable he was planning to travel to the U.S. in April for business meetings , but he 's put that on hold . " From what I 've heard -- and this is part of the problem , there are a lot of confusing signals -- that I ca n't go there for 90 days and I 'm not sure why 90 and what happens after , " he said . " Questions about immigration on this scale are global questions and require a global response . " It appears UK dual nationals will not be affected by the ban , but Assi still plans to wait until things are clearer . A longterm ban would be highly disruptive . Assi travels to the U.S. two or three times a year typically , and he worries for employees who also have Syrian and Iranian backgrounds . " Anecdotally , I 've heard from a lot of people , even pure Aussies , who have cancelled their trips to the U.S. out of disgust , " he added . " So I think we 're going to see an impact to inbound tourism to the U.S. in general . " Although he said he felt personally affronted by the ban , he considers himself one of the lucky ones . " There are a lot of Syrians who ca n't get out of the country , let alone get in anywhere else , " he said . Others in the Australian startup industry have also spoken out against the ban . Mike Cannon - Brookes , the cofounder of software company Atlassian , said on Twitter Sunday he wants to see a response from Australia 's Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull akin to that of Justin Trudeau .    The Canadian Prime Minister tweeted Sunday , " To those fleeing persecution , terror & war , Canadians will welcome you , regardless of your faith . Diversity is our strength . " This is what I 'd like to see from @TurnbullMalcolm . We are also a country built on immigrants . Let 's not forget that . https://t.co/vIOC7vJYUW -- Mike Cannon - Brookes ( @mcannonbrookes ) January 29 , 2017 It appears he 'll go wanting , however . " It is not my job as prime minister of Australia to run a commentary on the domestic policies of other countries , " Turnbull said at a press conference Monday . " We believe in creating equal opportunity and access for everyone and I stand against any action that does not support these , " Cannon - Brookes said in a statement shared by TechSydney . " I am shocked and saddened by the impact these restrictions could have on , not only Atlassian employees and their families , but all citizens whose dignity is being trampled . " " It 's easy to say ' this is a matter for Trump and the U.S. , ' but questions about immigration on this scale are global questions and require a global response , " Alex McCauley , the CEO of StartupAUS , which organises on behalf of Australian startups , told Mashable . He called the ban both " irresponsible and irrational . " As McCauley pointed out , half of the tech unicorns in the U.S. were founded by immigrants . That 's a situation mirrored in Australia , where StartupAUS 's statistics found that 61 percent of Australia 's top 50 startups were founded by immigrants or the children of immigrants . " Australia is a country with a huge immigrant population , to our great advantage , " he said . " We have a lot of connections with the U.S. , particularly with the West Coast . There will definitely be startup founders and employees affected . " If Trump 's ban continues , there may also be a chance for Australia to benefit if it takes the initiative , Assi suggested . " There are very smart people in these countries who would have gone to Google , Microsoft -- we might be able to attract them in Australia now , " he said . " If we can be smart about that , it 's a good opportunity . "  