Seattle has become known as one of the nation 's hubs for technology , but the Emerald City is n't the only region with growing tech companies in the Pacific Northwest . Powered by new money , startups in Portland and Vancouver , B.C. , as well as Seattle , are making big moves . Key new executives , hiring pushes , high - profile partnerships and new headquarters helped a variety of companies move up the GeekWire 200 list of privately - held Pacific Northwest startups this month . The top five remained static in February with DocuSign at the top , followed by Redfin , Avalara , Blue Origin and Puppet . Bellevue - based project management company Smartsheet was the only company in the top 10 with upward movement , climbing two spots to number eight on the list . Click for the full February update to the GeekWire 200 and continue reading for highlights . Seattle startup Apptentive in November raised $ 3.6 million , helping propel it 11 spots on the list to number 121 . At the time , the company , which helps mobile app makers retain customers and boost reviews , said the fresh cash would help grow the its headcount from 30 to 55 over the next year . Apptentive 's SDK helps clients like Nordstrom , eBay , Zillow , Microsoft , Sonic , Major League Soccer , IHG , Viacom , power in - app surveys and rating / review prompts . The company , which graduated from Techstars Seattle in 2012 , has said it powers more than 25 million in - app customers interactions each month . Whitepages spinout Hiya has been racking up some big wins lately , and that has helped the Seattle startup climb higher on the GeekWire 200 , landing at number 136 , up 13 spots from last month . Earlier this month the company landed a deal with China - based ZTE to integrate its caller ID and spam detection software directly into the $ 399 Axon 7 smartphone . That followed the release of an iOS app in September and a deal with Samsung to pre - install Hiya 's software on the Note 7 and other devices , though that feature is only available on unlocked phones for U.S. consumers . Hiya is entirely on mobile -- its popular app was previously called Whitepages Caller ID -- and has a worldwide footprint in nearly 200 countries with more than 1.5 billion unique numbers in its global database . The company says it scans 3.5 billion calls and texts per month . LoginRadius , which helps enterprises manage customer identity and access , moved to downtown Vancouver , B.C. in September from Edmonton , Alberta and climbed 12 spots on the GeekWire 200 list to number 101 . The company recently reported 257 percent growth in its platform , which encompasses more than 650 million monthly unique users . After recently growing its headcount by 110 percent , LoginRadius is promising a slew of new products in 2017 . Portland - based Cozy landed an $ 8.4 million funding round in August and has since grown rapdily . The property management startup 's LinkedIn employee count sits at 46 , a big jump from the 25 people the company said it employed when it raised money last summer . One of the key hires was Brian Ellin , formerly of Twitter and Medium , who the company brought in as vice president of product in January . All these moves helped Cozy rise 17 spots on the list to number 142 . Cozy , which originally launched in San Francisco but relocated its headquarters to Portland in 2013 because it was easier to hire engineers , now manages more than 100,000 properties in 13,000 cities across the U.S. Here are some of the other big movers on the GeekWire 200 in February : Nine startups made their debut on the GeekWire 200 in February . They are : Spaceflight Industries , Stay Alfred , globys , Highspot , resin.io , StudentRND , DefenseStorm , Viar and Manzama . Some companies jumped more than 20 spots this month , as we some fixed technical issues on the GeekWire 200 . Their current spots in the rankings are reflective of where they should have been rather than an actual jump between January and February . They are : Carena , up 26 spots to number 81 ; Maana , up 29 spots to number 116 ; and Qorus , up 15 spots to number 123 . The GeekWire 200 -- sponsored by our partners at EY -- is derived from our broader list of more than 900 Pacific Northwest tech startups . The list is designed to provide a better understanding of the startup landscape in the Northwest . The ranking is generated from publicly available data , including social media followings , approximate employee counts and inbound web links . To make sure your startup is eligible for inclusion in the GeekWire 200 , first make sure it 's included in the broader Startup List . If so , there 's no need to submit it separately for the GeekWire 200 . If your Pacific Northwest startup is n't among the companies on that larger list , you can submit it for inclusion here , and our algorithm will crunch the numbers to see if your company makes next month 's GeekWire 200 . ( Please , no service providers , marketing agencies , etc . ) Thanks to everyone for checking out this month 's ranking . And , just a reminder , if you value resources like these , be sure to check out our list and map of out - of - town tech companies with Seattle engineering outposts as well as our list of startup incubators , co - working spaces and accelerators in the region , and our GeekWork job board .