The London - based AI startup Cytora has just raised PS2.4 million in Series A funding led by Parkwalk with participation from Cambridge Enterprise , iLexIR and a high - profile group of angels including Alan Morgan , Paul Forster and Matthew Grant , a former executive at RMS . The a three - year - old company is focused on capturing hidden economic insights that exist in online data , giving clients a comprehensive overview of what is changing in the world and an unparalleled ability to unearth leading indicators and opportunities . Alan Morgan , chairman of MMC Ventures stated : " Cytora is meeting a real need in a rapidly changing world , it delivers data and analytics to enable real insights and inform decisions , especially around the pricing of risk . " With a background in geopolitical and supply chain risk , the 20-person startup now works with global companies in finance and insurance and has deep relationships in asset management . Asked how Cytora 's fresh capital will be used , CEO and co - founder Richard Hartley said the company plans to commercialise heavily in one of these areas over the next six months . " We help businesses gain a comprehensive understanding of risk , particularly in new and emerging markets , by leveraging the observation power of the internet , " says Hartley . " In the right hands , our data provides an information advantage which can drastically impact underwriting and trading decisions . " Using machine learning , Cytora connects billions of data points together , automatically assembling vast datasets that humans are unable to generate because of the huge volume and velocity of data on the web . Insurers use this data , for example , to quantify the number of losses across insurance lines such as Cyber and Product Recall to optimise their underwriting strategy and risk pricing . Cytora is the first company to be funded by the Judge Business School at Cambridge University , and the AI startup is also a member of the Plug and Play accelerator in California . Check out the startup 's recent pitch , performed at the Plug and Play winter summit :  