Elaia Partners , the Paris - based VC firm , today announces that its new Venture Capital fund , Elaia Delta Fund , has reached its Initial Closing at EUR115 million . The new fund pursues the fundamental drivers of Elaia Partners ' historical strategy targeting European earlystage digital opportunities based on high disruption and on deep technology . Elaia Partners will focus on B2B or B2B2C business models demonstrating global ambitions . Thanks to its increased fund size and its optimized portfolio management model , Elaia Partners will continue its successful investment strategy by heavily supporting its best performing investments through their successive fundraisings . Xavier Lazarus , Partner at Elaia Partners , says : " The timing for raising a new fund and investing at an early stage in Europe could not be better . Especially , the French deep tech startups are enjoying a powerful momentum : the best data scientists , software engineers , AI researchers and applied mathematicians seize the opportunity to transform their knowledge into fantastic products , while benefiting from the great level of maturity reached by the entrepreneurial ecosystem . We truly believe that the success stories backed by Elaia Partners so far such as Criteo , Mirakl , Sigfox or Teads , are just a starting point of what will be achieved in the future . "   In this Initial Closing of Elaia Delta Fund , Elaia Partners welcomes all its major repeating investors , including Bpifrance and EIF , Sabadell Asset Management , MGEN , BNP Paribas , EDF , Nexity , and many others . Elaia Partners stated that they will keep subscriptions to the fund open due to ongoing interest from additional investors . The firm is expecting to reach its EUR150 M hard cap through a final close in the next few months . Philippe Gire , Partner at Elaia Partners , says : " This highly successful fundraising is essentially due to the quality of our investment strategy and the consistent performance delivered since inception 15 years ago . It leads to compelling net cash returns for our existing investors , with close to EUR300 M already returned from our previous funds , representing net returns above 3x . "   Elaia Partners has started to deploy the fund earlier this year , with already three disclosed investments : Two other investments ( one in a robotics / AI company and the other in an AdTech specialist ) will soon be disclosed .