If you haven't noticed , the worldwide workforce is shifting away from traditional nine - to- five roles and toward a flexible freelance economy . English - speaking nations such as the US and the UK are both producing and hiring independent workers at a rapid rate . About half of the UK 's working population will be self - employed within the next five years , while one - third of the US workforce is made up of freelancers . But why is this good news for South Africans ? Making the most of your business today means going far beyond your own backyard . As a result , non - native English speakers have the potential to work across borders to grow their companies on a global scale . Thanks to the recent rise of the " gig economy , " entrepreneurs and business owners in South Africa have a worldwide reach when it comes to finding new clients , customers and streams of revenue . The gig economy signals a massive window of opportunity for South African professionals . However , the emerging independent workforce also means global competition . Those looking to truly take advantage of the gig economy need the right resources and tools at their disposal . Consider how following platforms and tools represent the building blocks of thriving in the gig economy regardless of your business or industry . For business owners , the advantage of hiring freelancers is two - fold . Firstly , freelancers provide businesses with flexibility with hiring as they can find talent on a project - by- project basis instead of relying on full - timers . Secondly , freelancers can be hired at the fraction of the cost of a dedicated employee . In pursuit of clients , freelancers and independent workers are flocking to platforms such as Upwork and Fiverr . In short , these sites allow freelancers in countries such as South Africa to connect with professionals from around the world . From marketing and IT professionals to customer service reps and virtual assistants , these platforms encompass some of the gig economy 's most popular professions . Freelance platforms essentially allow freelancers to bid for jobs on a project - by- project basis . Upwork 's bidding system is particularly useful for South Africans who can apply for gigs at a more competitive rate versus native English - speakers . Bear in mind that sometimes non - native speakers are stigmatised by business owners in the West : it 's important to display proficiency in English on your profile and advertise authentically when searching for gigs . Allowing freelancers to connect with professionals from over 180 countries , platforms such as Upwork provide a secure marketplace for freelancers to do business across the globe . Blogging is not only a necessity for modern web - based businesses looking for more traffic and leads , but also represents a potential revenue stream in and of itself . As noted by marketing guru Neil Patel , starting a blog that generates income is possible in just about any industry . Considering that businesses that blog receive 67% more leads , the benefits of blogging are difficult to ignore regardless of what you might be selling . Similar , blog and content writers are among the most sought - after assets for today 's businesses . Whether you 're writing for yourself or on behalf of someone else in another country , blogging can quickly become a full - time job for skilled writers with specialised knowledge . By itself , blogging can plant the seeds of a full - time business in addition to advertising your company to a global audience . Especially given its relatively low financial investment , consistent blogging has become an expectation for companies today for rather than an exception to the rule . Ecommerce has recently overtaken in - person shopping , with today 's shoppers making over half of their purchases digitally . The key takeaway here is that consumers today are not afraid to spend money online , especially if they 're working with a trusted marketplace . As such , South Africans have plenty of options when it comes to finding places to sell their physical   products . For example , Amazon represents a prime option for businesses due to its name recognition and the platform 's ability to handle selling millions of products . The same rings true for ecommerce giants such as eBay and niche platforms such as Etsy which focus on arts and home goods . Content creation is the cornerstone of today 's most successful companies . The combination educating your audience via blogging while also producing video represents the ideal content strategy for any business looking to expand their reach . Consider that video is projected to account for about 80% of all web traffic within the next few years . As a result , video marketing has exploded in popularity as web - based businesses are searching for ways to inform , entertain and effectively sell to an audience glued to the screen . With video consumption at an all - time high , savvy businesses are using video education as an effective means of growing their audience . Not unlike the world of blogging , video marketing can be used to both educate leads and ultimately feed them into your funnel . Online tools such as Kajabi are helping businesses reach and teach their leads simultaneously . Video marketing through online courses is easy for your audience to digest and represents a cost - effective way to position your business as a leader in your industry . Through Kajabi , just about any business can create and sell online content regardless of their industry . From marketers and contractors to service - based business and those selling physical progress , just about any professional can effectively sell their knowledge . Content creation goes hand in hand with attracting more business . Given that today 's consumers are more likely to watch a video versus sift through text , incorporating videos and education into your content strategy is a solid idea to make sure you are n't missing any potential leads . Perhaps one of the most important aspects of succeeding in the gig economy is ensuring that you get paid in a consistent , timely manner . While there are platforms out there for workers and businesses making transactions ( such as Upwork ) , often freelancers must deal with businesses independently to ensure payment . Secure online payment through digital wallets such as Due can give independent workers peace of mind as they juggle multiple clients in different countries . Not only are digital wallets more secure than traditional payment via check , but also process in a matter or days versus weeks . South Africans have all the opportunity in the world to find success via the flexible gig economy . That being said , competing on a global scale means finding opportunities that play to your strengths and finding unique ways to market your skills . Itai Elizur is COO at Inbound Junction , a content marketing agency specialising in helping startups and business increase their online visibility . Find him on https://twitter.com/ItaiElizur Hi Itai , Blogging for a global audience is huge . I met a South African couple in Bali a few years back , who 'd been traveling the world though blogging . Think not your country as an audience , but the world , and you will be on your way to creating something helpful , special and sustaining for yourself and your readers . Thanks for sharing   Ryan Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Startups