Entrepreneurs are infamous for learning through failure . Whether it 's a botched investor meeting , a disastrous panel discussion , or an abandoned startup , the education of doing it wrong is unmatched in the entrepreneurial world . However , there is something to be said about learning without failing , particularly as it takes such a toll on your confidence and motivation . Fortunately , mentorship can be the safety net you need to get started without failing first . With a mentor , your first instinct does n't have to be your only option . Ideally , mentors will provide advice and warnings learned from years of personal experience . These seasoned entrepreneurs have likely been through everything from raising capital and building company culture to cofounder disputes and disappointing funding rounds , giving them the insight they need to guide you through the elaborate journey of entrepreneurship . Plus , in a world that demands you know someone to get in the door , mentorship provides the fast track to an advantageous entrepreneurial network . At Tech . Co , we 've been committed to the value of mentorship for years . Between our one - on - one sessions at Innovate ! and Celebrate to our mission of supporting startups around the world , Tech . Co has made it as easy as possible to grow as a budding startup without having to fail first . The Tech . Co tradition of mentorship is about so much more than giving advice . We make sure that every entrepreneur has what they need to succeed , from contacts to confidence . And because we know that mentors come in all shapes and sizes , we always try to make sure entrepreneurs are paired with someone that can really help . At SXSW , Tech . Co and Mobile Future will be partnering to provide aspiring entrepreneurs with the mentorship they need . The event , Startup Lunch : The Wireless Meetup , will feature food , drinks , and one - on - one mentor sessions that will help you connect with some of the brightest minds in the mobile space . The event takes place at 12 pm on Saturday , March 11th at Maggie Mae 's . You can RSVP here , giving you the chance to sign up for an optional mentor session .