As Mattermark has found , the top three accelerators in the startup business -- Y Combinator , Techstars , and 500 Startups -- have been responsible for about ten percent of all series A deals in the U.S. for a couple years straight . The real news here ? Most people in the tech world thought that number would be higher . Here 's what Mattermark had to say in a recent blog post : " According to Mattermark data , the prevalence of graduates from these programs raising Series A rounds was near all - time highs in 2016 , with 9.3 percent of Series A deals . 2015 marked the high point , with the trio of accelerators contributing 10.1 percent of all Series A deals . [ ... ] The upward trend for these three programs contributes to the overall upswing of Series A round activity , which has more than doubled over the past 10 years . " The Series B , meanwhile , remains the easiest round to land : Series B dollars are up 207 percent since Q3 2015 , though VC investment continues to constrict slightly overall . Interestingly , Mattermark includes a Twitter poll in which 60 percent of the 514 respondents said that they expected the three accelerators to be responsible for more than the roughly 10 percent of Series A rounds that they landed in 2016 . It looks like the majority of tech insiders who voted expect to see a wider divide among successful accelerators and lesser known ones . This response aligns with certain popular beliefs in the tech community . Consider the 80/20 rule , also known at the Pareto principle , which states that around 80 percent of one 's benefits often come from 20 percent of one 's causes . Or , even better , take a look at income inequality in the U.S. , which is far worse than the average person assumes it is : The top one percent in the U.S. average earnings of $ 1.3 million a year , over three times as much as they pulled in during the 1980s , while the bottom 50 percent average $ 16,000 , a number that 's stayed the same for three decades . While the top three startup accelerators should definitely be congratulated for their significant chunk of Series A successes , the numbers might just as easily be a vote of confidence in all the other accelerators out there . After all , that remaining 90 percent needs to come from somewhere .