Investment firm H2 Ventures has announced that it will be expanding its flagship H2 Accelerator program to support data and artificial intelligence ( AI ) startups across Australia and New Zealand . To promote the accelerator , the firm will be conducting a tour across a number of Australia 's capital cities and Auckland , leading discussions focused on fintech , data , and female entrepreneurship . Speaking to Startup Daily about the announcement , H2 founding Partner Toby Heap said the expansion has been sitting in H2 's backend for some time , as the firm waited for the right timing in terms of commercialisation within the AI and data industries . " Everyone 's seen it coming for a long time , and as you know timing is everything with startups , " he said . " We 've already had this keen interest in data and AI and then given that we saw that this was the way the world was going , we really felt strongly that the next decade is really going to be sort of driven by changes in the way we use data and AI . " Years ago , I think if you tried to do it you 'd need a lot of effort to convince people it 's a good idea . Now it 's a good time in terms of product uptake , if you look at all the corporations they 've really taken this technology on board . Investors also know about the technology and are willing to get onto it . " Giving participants $ 100,000 in funding in exchange for 10 percent equity , the H2 Accelerator had traditionally been open exclusively to fintech startups before starting to venture outside the box for its first 2017 intake . To facilitate an even broader scope of businesses , the accelerator is doubling its participant numbers from last year , moving from eight startups to sixteen . Heap said the firm is also looking to expand its reach outside of NSW , where the majority of startups who participate in the program traditionally reside . " That 's why we 're doing the roadshow . We 're hoping by going out and visiting the capital cities we 'll get a lot more teams from outside NSW who are hopefully prepared to join the program for six months , " he said . " [ Also ] if you 're doing something focused on verticals , there 's a lot of people out there working away on their ideas . Especially on a space just breaking through like this , you want all those people to realise look there 's someone here willing to support them . " Helping lead the accelerator will be H2 Ventures VC Associate Zach Gazak , who Heap said was brought on last year in anticipation of the firm " heading in this direction " . Gazak formerly led Silicon Valley data accelerator Insight as a Program Director , and will now be bringing his expertise to H2 Accelerator . The next cohort will commence in August , with the H2 tour set to progress throughout May. You can read about the program here .