An Belfast - based company working on utilizing our country 's existing hydroelectric facilities , won an award on Thursday evening at the national Cleantech Open contest in San Francisco . Surge Hydro received the national award for the " Business Model with the Best Chance for Immediate Investment and Commercialization , " according to Jeff Marks , executive director of Environmental & Energy Technology Council of Maine . Surge Hydro , which earned a trip to the national competition last October when it won the regional Cleantech Open in Boston , is attempting to use technology to leverage the country 's underutilized hydroelectric infrastructure . More than 90 percent of existing dams in the United States , roughly 80,000 or so dams , do n't produce electricity , according to Surge Hydro 's founders , David Markley and Nicholas Cabral . The pair , both Maine Maritime Academy graduates , want to change that by utilizing local smart grid networks so communities can harness low - cost hydropower . The Cleantech Open is a hybrid between a startup accelerator and business pitch competition . It claims to be the world 's largest accelerator for startups working in the areas of environmental science and clean energy . During the six - month program , startups receive extensive mentoring , training , and access to investors and capital . Since 2005 , more than 1,000 startups have participated in its annual accelerator and mentorship program in the United States . These businesses have raised a total of more than $ 1.2 billion . " These eager entrepreneurs started with bright ideas and built strong relationships and business strategies to support their growth into world - class companies . Today , they are leading the way in the cleantech sector , generating green jobs and contributing to a surge of positive environmental impact , " reads the website . Surge Hydro was the third Maine company in the past five years to win the northeast regional competition and earn a trip to the national competition . Pika Energy in Gorham won in 2012 and Portland - based Rapport won in 2015 . So far , no Maine company has won the national competition . The post Surge Hydro wins award at national Cleantech Open appeared first on Maine Startups Insider . This article is courtesy of Maine Startups Insider , created by Whit Richardson , a journalist who 's covered Maine 's business community for the past decade . Visit Maine Startups Insider to read more about Maine 's startup community and subscribe to the weekly newsletter .