The importance of SEO has been a point of debate for years . Half the internet believes SEO is dead , while the other half feels it 's necessary . But do we overlook it ? There is plenty of information available online to manipulate the rankings in one way or another , but one factor is constant : SEO 's usage is on an ever - increasing rise . The popularity is immense . People use the internet and enter millions of keywords daily . If you know how websites operate , you may be able to understand the rich benefits of SEO . In the corporate environment today , competitiveness is key . Digital marketing experts know how important SEO is for businesses . Here are the seven most captivating reasons for your business to invest in SEO : Search engines are the primary gateway to success . The number of products released every day has increased . It comes as no surprise that around 90 percent of the people check product reviews before vouching to buy the product . If the global demand is high , the customer will purchase a product or a service . In this digital age , customers buy everything on the internet . As many as four out of five customers search with local intent . For this reason , SEO will have to be applied if your clients are region - based .   Businesses need to adapt to the most recent tactics to reap the benefits . A carefully - managed SEO campaign will expand the efforts to different websites . Social media sites and blogs take link building to a whole new dimension . As businesses , the higher the website is ranked , more audiences are reached . Successful content marketing is a great boost for the company 's SEO and subsequently for the company as a whole . Although content marketing results in benefits for the company , other actions can show similar results . In particular email marketing is known for its positive results . PPC campaigns and banner ads also pay a central role . However , email marketing campaigns need a huge time and financial commitment . An enormous amount of resources is required to match the current marketing trends . SEO is on the cheap side , making it a no - brainer for startups . While it may be difficult to determine the benefits of SEO for business , it always has a high ROI . If one website ranks the highest , it will receive as much as 33 percent engagement from the users . For this reason , companies that invest in the right direction , are likely to benefit more than the original investment . The most popular web queries and the highest visited web pages have the best potential of a continuously increasing ROI . Above all , SEO advertisement is cost - effective . It 's a cheap and guaranteed method of business promotion and development . It for sure takes some time to build and manage an advertisement campaign . The more you invest , the better . Understanding this is important because a greater level of traffic will increase the conversion rate . Online advertisement is not limited solely to content marketing but also to email campaigns . Recently , video advertising and its engagement rate have skyrocketed . A high number of people watch videos daily . The most famous platform is YouTube and Facebook . Videos made and built around keywords will result in more top viewers and popularity . The videos will also be linked to optimize the traffic and make better the ranking of the brand . The many advanced algorithms operate on the same underlying principle . Videos are the future of advertising . Businesses can feel the importance of videos in an advertisement . A properly made video is conceptually put and needs linking , sharing and promotion , by using SEO . Prospective customers use smartphones more than ever before . It has become an integral part of our lives . The traffic generated by mobile users is a dominant force on the net . For this reason , businesses should change their promotional platforms . An entirely new spectrum of SEO techniques masters the mobile marketing area . Digital marketing professionals who work with big - league companies will tell you that mobile devices need adequate support to rank higher . It 's important to keep up with the competitors ' actions . The main keywords and the results on the first page play a significant role in understanding how SEO will work for your company . All business rivals are using SEO for their websites , and using it will only increase your outreach . If your brand is not investing in proven search engine optimization techniques , you are already at a low . The faster you understand this fact , the better it is for your business . Read more about search engine optimization here on Tech . Co