Etched into the mindset of the American military , the warrior ethos of the U.S. Armed Forces is to leave no one behind . Inspired by that credo , a tightly knit band of veterans and their family members has created a unique " boot camp " to help ensure vets are not left behind in the 21st century economy . One of those vets , Josh Anderson , was back home in Colorado in the winter of 2006 visiting family for the holidays when a Marine Corps buddy called and delivered the sad news : a friend of theirs had been shot down in a chopper over Baghdad and drowned . When Anderson heard what had happened , his mind skipped back to a moment several months earlier . Anderson had initially selected those orders for himself , but at the last minute traded with his friend for an assignment in Quantico , Virginia . " That was one of those things that makes you question why you 're sitting where you 're sitting , " said Anderson . He had joined the United States Marines in the summer of 2002 at the age of 20 without telling his parents . For years , Anderson wrestled with the realization that , if not for happenstance , he might have died in that crash . Anderson felt like he owed the world something . Several years later , on the other side of the country , a woman named Charlotte Creech grew furious when she learned of her husband 's admissions status at a nearby state university . A veteran of the United States Air Force , he 'd applied and been accepted to the school . Shortly thereafter , however , his reserve unit was called up to Iraq ; but now that he was back five months later and ready to enroll , the university said he 'd have to start the application process all over again . " I lost it , " said Creech , who had been trying to find ways to help her husband get his footing in the civilian world after returning from the military . " Why could n't he start school that year ? I felt very disrespected that there was no recognition for his service ; he was just dropped and allowed to fall through the cracks . " Creech 's husband was lucky enough to eventually find work as a firefighter . But having experienced what it 's like for a veteran to step back into the civilian world with little support , she channeled those emotions into her own professional life . Disillusioned by her corporate gig running the claims unit for a Fortune 500 insurance company , she 'd returned to school , pursuing a master 's degree in business administration . With her husband 's experience in mind , Creech partnered with one of her classmates , a former member of the Coast Guard . Together , they wrote a business plan for a startup designed to help veterans with their college search , which included a GI Bill calculator that estimated what education costs service members could count on the government to cover .   By 2012 , Creech had been working on the business for a full year , raising about $ 225,000 in pre - seed venture capital . It was then that she heard about a new veterans - focused startup accelerator called Patriot Boot Camp , a free program open to veterans and their spouses . Launched in connection with Boulder 's Techstars , the organization had been founded on something of a whim . Taylor McLemore , whose grandfather had served in the military , was attending Techstars ' spring cohort when he noticed there probably was n't much in the way of groups that helped veterans transition into the world of technology . McLemore tweeted at Techstars founder David Cohen asking why the tech community did n't do more to engage service members . Cohen agreed and said if McLemore came up with something , Techstars would support it . What McLemore landed on was a three - day " boot camp , " a mini Techstars program focused specifically on providing mentoring and training to veterans and military spouses interested in entrepreneurship . " I cried out in joy when I heard about this , " said Creech . " I immediately called my business partner and said we have to go . " The pair attended the inaugural Patriot Boot Camp at Georgetown University . They had such a positive experience they returned in 2013 for the second iteration held at George Washington University . " The fact that people were willing to volunteer their time and were willing to listen and offer advice and help make connections -- it was just incredible , " said Creech . " I had a one - on - one meeting with David Cohen and with a couple of investors ; those were connections that were untouchable to me in Connecticut as a nobody . " Two years in , Patriot Boot Camp has graduated dozens of veterans and family members who 'd found hope and success in entrepreneurship , working on everything from helping children connect safely to the internet to improving connectivity in remote conflict areas .   Meanwhile , the task of providing service members with a smooth transition out of the military had unquestionably become one of the great challenges facing the country . According to the Institute for Veterans and Military Families , approximately 200,000 people transition out of military service each year , and almost half cite getting socialized to civilian culture as a top challenge . In 2014 , hoping to play a greater role in solving that problem , Patriot Boot Camp began a transformation from McLemore 's fledgling idea to an independent nonprofit , which meant hiring the first two full - time employees . By then , Creech had realized she was a stronger manager than a startup founder . Still , she wanted to continue helping vets , so she applied and last year was hired as Patriot Boot Camp 's first executive director . " They wanted me to be involved since I had been through the program and was passionate , " said Creech . " For me it was a perfect opportunity and combination of all the things I had worked up to . " Since the group was founded four years ago , Patriot Boot Camp has graduated 550 alumni from multiple three - day camps across the country . This year , the group decided to establish a formal headquarters in Texas and Colorado . In each city , Patriot Boot Camp has long been supported by organizations such as the tech - education community Galvanize , which provided mentorship when the boot camp was still in its infancy and offers graduates tuition and membership discounts . " At first we thought that if we made [ Patriot Boot Camp ] a traveling road show it would be easier for veterans to attend , " Creech says . " But we found that really was n't true -- if people need the training they 're willing to travel . " Read more about veteran entrepreneurs here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .