It 's 2006 , and Australia 's game development landscape is brimming with both local and global talent . Among the big players is international gaming giant Sega , a company which gained enough traction to open up its own baby theme park in Sydney 's Darling Harbour . Enter the global financial crisis , a torrential wave which would bury Sega and , alongside it , nearly the entirety of Australia 's game development businesses . From the ashes rose small independent or ' indie ' developers , startups that are now leading the charge towards rebuilding an industry that was once a contender on the global stage . Now , indie developers make up the majority of Australia 's gaming sector , a $ 115 million industry expected to grow thanks to the high export numbers generated from new and veteran startups in the space . According to Nicole Stark of Disparity Games , the rise of indie devs can be attributed to the " perfect storm " of unemployed developers left behind from the wreckage of the global financial crisis , in combination with the increase of mobile gaming opportunities . " The rise of mobile [ brought ] a lot more casual gamers , so people who would n't normally play games , the average person , was now a part of the market , " she said . Mobile games and the nature of their development , according to Stark , presented a ripe opportunity for talented developers to start their own businesses and begin creating . Mobile games are generally smaller in scale , easy to distribute , and require less resources and time to create , and thus they are overall cheaper . Stark herself took up the mantle to create her own game alongside her husband , Peter , with the both of them having spent time working within the gaming industry . The pair began working together in 2011 , when Stark was on maternity leave while her husband took long service leave . " We thought hey , let 's start making a video game , " she said . The pair developed their first title , Run Fatty Run , a mobile platforming game where a player must navigate obstacles while getting chased by a tiger , and established their startup , Disparity Games . Their full time roles took a backseat , with the couple splitting the work on development between them : Peter focused on programming and Nicole on design . However , beside the huge intricacies of game development , the couple had to also juggle all the typical facets of , well , starting up a startup , without a source of income . " It [ was ] absolutely terrifying , " said Stark . " We had no steady job , a mortgage to cover , and four children . To go from earning money to watching your bank account dwindle is really tough . " Jumping between different roles served as a double - edged sword for the entrepreneur , who described it as " crazy " yet " exciting " . " To be honest I still get sick of how many hats I have to wear . Every time you swap hats you have a little bit of inertia . It 's the best job in the world , but also the most strenuous , " said Stark . Developing titles would n't just involve the efforts of the couple , however , but the entire family , consisting of four daughters from ages eight to 24 . Stark explained that their 20 old daughter , who is studying animation , works for the business a few days a week , while the youngest is learning programming . " We 're really a family indie development company ; the mom and pop store of indie game development , " joked Stark . The family operates at their residence just a flicker away from the sea in Noosa , as Stark talked about the ups and downs of working as a family business . " When it 's great it 's very very great . There was certainly an adjustment period at the beginning though , because you go straight to spending all your time together , " she said . The later half of 2015 saw Disparity Games release their flagship IP title , Ninja Pizza Girl , a colourful action - platformer with bullying and teenage angst at its ideological heart . The title was met with substantial critical and financial success , having earned high reviews scores across the board . With their commercial success , the startup now sits as one of the leaders of Queensland 's gaming sector , a tight - knit community compacted with other indie developers . With an increase of startups entering the space in both Queensland and Australia - wide , Stark said it 's a sector she hopes that will continue to diversify . " I think there 's space for people to do things a lot of different ways , which is what we 're seeing at the moment . You have your micro AAA indie developers , then a lot of smaller sized ones too , " she said . These ' micro AAA ' developers are the startups looking to fill the gaps left behind from the global financial crisis . According to Stark , there 's businesses now face a new challenge , involving the oversaturation of genre games , particularly in mobile , due to lack of diversity and copying from international competitors . Stark , however , is confident the industry will move forward . " As the barriers decrease , there will be more companies popping up . There 's so much innovation in the indie game scene , so there will always be new ideas coming about in one way or another , " she said . Currently working on contract work including a title called ' Younger : The Cloud Catcher Chronicles ' , Disparity Games is looking towards developing its next IP game , a parkour platform dubbed ' Snapdragon ' .