The cowboy builder stereotype may be largely an unfair one , but one enduring element of it that remains true is the prevalence of haggling instead of set pricing . Construction sector startup BUILT/ plans to transform that model by digitising the customer experience in a mobile - optimised web store that gives builders a better deal . Founder Nick Thomas developed BUILT/ because the market for building supplies had yet to undergo any digital transformation .   The tradespeople were no Luddites in their personal uses of technology , but a data deficit in a complex supply chain , heavy equipment and a reliance on personal relationships had previously limited its application to sales in the sector .   " The digital behaviours are there , they 're just not transferring to their professional lives , " he says . " They actually do want to adopt , they just need to be presented with something . " A new generation of builders more familiar with e - commerce and a growing desire for the common retail principle of price transparency convinced Thomas it was now ripe for digital disruption .   Any sale of building materials is always negotiated face - to - face . BUILT/ intends to change that by adding transparency to pricing . " The traditional marketplace is characterised by a personal relationship between the general builder and your branch manager , " says Thomas . " It 's a personal relationship , and that 's how the customer develops trust with the brand . " The mass adoption of smartphones has made the old model of negotiating prices vulnerable by giving the ability to instantly search the market for more competitive prices . Builders were increasingly craving consistency in the availability of stock and more transparent pricing to match the majority of other retail sectors . " The retail basics of range , price and proximity are never going to go away ; they 're always the top three things that tradespeople say are important , " says Thomas . " But what they all crave is consistency in the availability of stock in particular . They want consistency of service but they also want this transparent pricing . " There is n't that much loyalty to the big names . They will say that personal relationship is vital , but you give them something better or something that is cheaper and it will ebb away . " To provide a service to replace this , he first needed to develop an entire dataset through discussions with suppliers . All of the information on pricing , inventory controls and product descriptions needed to be constructed from the ground up , as such a database did n't yet exist in the industry . When that was completed he was ready to provide a platform to sell the materials . Thomas previously established a fashion and footwear retail business called Cloggs.co.uk which he grew from nothing to a PS12 million business with no external funding before selling it to JD Sports in 2013 . His next role as e - commerce and multichannel director at discount bookstore The Works led to the development of a scalable multichannel platform that transforming stagnant website trading performance into a thriving e - commerce business . He then became the group digital and eVentures director at Travis Perkins , the UK 's largest builders ' merchants , which now provides BUILT/ with the supporting local infrastructure and relationships to overcome the many barriers to entry into the market . They helped him build an omni - channel platform on the NetSuite unified cloud commerce platform , which houses all the information for customers , their orders and suppliers in one place to provide a consistent and transparent service . The system shows real - time product availability online and gives shops access to the inventory from anywhere in the business Builders can source materials on a project - by - project basis by providing transparent fixed pricing online and a choice of how to receive their orders . Customers can receipt order by either delivery or click and collect or just by showing up in store . Builders can set up an online account to review their purchase history and balance and pay their invoices online .   They can create a project product list online and then visit a local store , where a salesperson can access the list and finish the purchase in store .   If the builder is n't ready to purchase any items they can instead add them to their e - commerce cart or list and complete the transaction at a later date . BUILT/ will start small and grow fast when it launches in the UK later this year . " Our mission is to make the entire purchasing experience as painless and efficient as possible , " says Thomas . " Greater convenience and ease of doing business rank among our customers ' top priorities . "