The UK events sector is worth about PS40 billion a year , but it is still a remarkably traditional ' offline ' industry based on relationships between individuals . That 's something one startup is slowly starting to change . Hire Space , an online marketplace for venues , was launched three years ago by two friends : Edward Poland and Will Swannell . Neither had any experience in events or venues . Swannell was a secondary school teacher and Poland worked for an MP . The idea came to Swannell when he realised how many schools sit empty after hours . The startup was originally conceived as a way to help underused public sector buildings , struggling with austerity , to bring in another revenue stream , Poland tells Techworld . It has since become far wider in scope , with 5,000 venues across the UK listed and another 100 added every month . The site hosts an eclectic mix of spaces from the London Eye and the Olympic Velodrome to Hampton Court Palace and Shakespeare 's Globe . The startup employs 40 staff and the majority of its users work in the professional events business organising conferences , parties , weddings and meetings , according to Poland . " We have an incredible team . They could run the business . And they free me up to have the luxury of thinking about big strategic questions , " he says .   " We wanted it to be a transactional platform letting people book a venue in a few clicks . We wanted it to be website first , " he explains . The company has now raised PS2.5 million in total , including PS500,000 from crowdfunding platform Crowdcube and early angel investment from Karen Hanton , founder of restaurant booker TopTable . Hire Space is free for users but takes commission from venues ( apart from public sector spaces , which are allowed to list for free ) .    Poland hopes Hire Space 's data might help provide insights into the events industry . " Last year we had about 25,000 enquiries and 4.5 million page views on the site . That 's great insight , so we will release a report based on the data , " he says . " We are very new to this sector . Our competitors ' main reaction has been to be baffled , confused or fearful , " Poland adds . The company 's relative youth is no bar to ambition however . Looking ahead , Poland says he is considering expanding overseas and growing the range of services offered . " There is enormous potential for Hire Space . We get people at the start of the event planning cycle . We could even become a full events marketplace . We 're in a position where we are thinking about what 's next , " he says .