Competitive analysis is an essential element of a business plan , but unfortunately , many startups are n't ready to accept this fact . The result is in front of us -- 90 percent of them fail within the first 18 months . As a business owner , it 's your job to handle this issue in an effective manner and forge ahead accordingly . If you wish to see your business touching new heights in today 's highly - competitive world , then take every possible step to know your competitors and shoot ahead of them before things become hot and bothered . Many business owners consider competition the biggest hurdle in the market . They believe they could do much better if there was no one to compete with . This is not true at all . Competition , in fact , is healthy for the market augmentation and helps consumers in a significant manner . It pushes large businesses to improve their services for the sake of expansion and allows consumers to make better decisions . For small businesses or startups , however , it creates stumbling blocks which they can approach as a boon or bane . It entirely depends on the individual mindset as to how he perceives competition . Should you wish to fast - track your growth , then learn to handle competition effectively . As long as you compete with a publicly traded company , collecting information is very easy due to various legal implications . But if it 's a private company , then you may need to walk the extra mile to get desired results . What you can do is follow the below - mentioned five ways and conduct a competitive analysis to outdo your competitors before it 's too late .   Instead of using the latest tech - enabled tools and hire experts to collect information about your competitors . You could simply talk to their customer care executives and understand the pitch they use for selling . Lest your competitors have a strong offline presence , you can simply visit their stores and collect information about all the major products . It will help you figure out how their products can be further improved and launched in a revamped avatar . In addition to this , you can check their reviews , opinions , and suggestions about the products and what improvements they would want to see in them . Doing so will give you a primary idea of what lies ahead and how much you need to improvise to get an edge over others . The previous step is good to initiate the proceedings , but you can not entirely depend on it to get desired results . That 's where the role of credit and background reports becomes important . The moment you use them , you get a clear idea of how much efforts you need to put to outdo your competitors . There are many service providers in the market that can help you with company credit check . Go with the one that carries a solid track record and can live up to your expectations . They are golden options for many businesses in specific areas . All you need to do is visit your local chamber of commerce or any other government department that deals with the business registration process . There you can find business directories , containing information about all the businesses operating in that area in a hassle - free manner . Besides , you can also opt for a paid directory service in your area and check out who else is present in the same field that you 're trying to explore .   Above mentioned tips are good enough for competitive analysis in the offline market , but since you 're living in the information age , you need to cover the online market as well . Most businesses try to maintain a consistent online presence through websites , blogs , social media accounts , forums , etc . You could hire a social media expert for company search or spend some time yourself and check out how well they are performing . This will help you stretch your own limits and perform better once you hit the floor and kickstart business proceedings . Each country has its own economic census , which contains detailed information of all the businesses engaged in the production or distribution of goods & services in the online or offline market . For example , U.S. economic census can be accessed at www.census.gov/econ , while U.K. economic census is www.ons.gov.uk . Likewise , you can search for the economic census of any country and take a look at the lists of different businesses easily . It will give you a precise information about the number of registered businesses in any specific niche or market . Use this information to plan your growth strategy . There are many other ways through which you can do competitive analysis ; however , the ones mentioned here are widely used by many millennial entrepreneurs and new - age startups . You can give them a shot to make better decisions and outdo your competitors over time . Read more tips on marketing at Tech . Co