California - based on - demand insurance startup Trov has raised US$ 45 million ( $ 59.44 million ) in a Series D round led by Munich Re / HSB Ventures , with participation from all its Series C investors , including Australia 's Suncorp Group . The funding , which brings the total raised by the startup to date to US$ 85 million ( $ 112.28 million ) , will be used to launch the platform into new markets and expand the categories of items that it covers . Munich Re will be underwriting Trov 's insurance capabilities across Europe , Asia , and South Africa , while new investor Sompo Holdings will help bring Trov to Japan . The Trov app launched last year , enabling consumers to buy insurance for individual items , such as laptops , bikes , instruments and so on , and turn it on or off as they please , creating ' micro - duration ' policies . Australia was its first launch market for the app thanks to a friendly regulatory atmosphere and a partnership the startup had established with Suncorp in 2014 to help users keep track of their belongings through its tech . Investing US$ 5 million into Trov 's Series C round last year , Suncorp has also underwritten the startup 's insurance risk locally . The app has since had over 35,000 downloads in Australia , according to Trov , with more than $ 2 million worth of items protected . The startup also stated that 65 percent of Australian customers did not switch off the insurance once they had switched it on . The startup stated in November that the majority of engagement had been from 18 - 34 year olds , who have most commonly been protecting items such as mobile phones and laptops . Scott Walchek , founder and CEO of Trov , said , " Trov 's early success in Australia and UK is demonstrating that modern consumers want a new way to protect their things . With the additional capital and extensive partnerships , soon millions of people around the world will be empowered to protect the things that enhance their lives whenever and however they want . " " The combined capabilities of key global insurance leaders will streamline our regulatory path and increase our go - to - market effectiveness in each new territory we pursue . " The latest Pulse of Fintech report from KPMG , examining fintech trends and investment over the fourth quarter of 2016 , identified insurance technology ( insurtech ) as a particularly strong trend , with global investment in the sector crossing US$ 1 billion , up from the US$ 590 million invested in 2015 . The report predicted that most insurtech investments will most likely focus on companies specialising on specific individual components of the insurance process , though " there may be some that follow the lead of Lemonade and Trov " , which it identified as early - mover , full - service digital insurance providers .