There are so many daily tasks and obligations in our lives that can fill our head make us easily distracted . From buying our weekly groceries and remembering to turn the lights off before we leave to making coffee and turning on the security alarm , it 's these trivial things that can really make life more complex and costly if we are n't able to organize and prioritize them into a daily routine . But what if those tasks could be simplified down to a push of a button ? You wake up , the coffee is already being made , your grocery list is immediately compiled , all of the lights are on , and your Lyft is already scheduled to be on its way to take you to work . And you only had to take a few steps out of bed to make it all happen . It 's a fantasy that 's about to become reality .   Introducing FetchitGO by Tantiv4 , the universal remote for a simpler life . This striking piece of technology is a stationary remote control that is malleable enough to be able to connect with and control almost any piece of technology in your household . It does n't end there : FetchitGO connects with your smartphone and opens the possibility for you to control your apps from it and set reminders for yourself to get your chores done .   The biggest things FetchitGO can accomplish includes controlling the thermostat , controlling lights , finding your lost phone , medicine reminders , playing music and buying groceries . But the beauty of this technology is that you can program it to do almost anything . You are truly making it your own . The best part , you do n't have to be a tech geek to get the hang of FetchitGO , and that 's what the creators intended . FetchitGO is meant to be accessible to the everyday person who wants to keep their life organized so they can stay ahead of the game . Tantiv4 has a series of tutorials to get your FetchitGo off the ground and integrated into your life . It can also be a lifesaver for those who do n't necessarily use a smartphone . For senior citizens , they could press a button on their wall and connect directly to their grandkids . And we all need a little more time with grandma , right ? Tantiv4 launched a Kickstarter page for the smart remote a few months ago , has over 300 backers and raised $ 50,000 with time to spare . They are using the extra time to raise more money to integrate FetchitGO compatible with more technology , like Openhab 2 in a DIY SD card image . The company estimates delivery of FetchitGo in June 2017 . Tantiv4 is always seeking out tech companies to partner with to make FetchitGO even more universal . As of now , some of their partners include Spotify , Logitech , Nest , Lifx and Hue . As soon as FetchitGO starts breaking into the market , it can only be expected that there will be many more .   The FetchitGO team , Tantiv4 , is a mix of industry veterans and young designers who really know their stuff . Lokesh Johri , CEO , leads the team . He 's an expert on team leadership , has experience in software development and successfully sold a previous startup . Swaroop Adusumilli , COO , has been in systems silicon design and has designed numerous chips for USB hubs , networking , security and microprocessors . Neeraj Chauhan , marketing advisor and Tantiv4 board member , is the CEO of Obi phones and has led a one billion dollar distribution company . Sukwon Park is the design manager and responsible for the aesthetics of the products . Most of us need to be a little more organized in our life . You can back their Kickstarter and preorder one here . This featured startup is part of our premium Spotlight Feature Series . Learn more about how your company or crowdfunding project can get noticed and reach thousands of readers around the country , including influencers , investors and more .