Sydney coworking space Tank Stream Labs ( TSL ) and Melbourne counterpart York Butter Factory ( YBF ) are looking to put an end to State of Origin - type rivalries in the Australian startup community , today announcing a partnership that will allow their respective members to work in the other space for free . The spaces aim to foster a national approach to the development of the Australian tech landscape , which has increasingly become state - based as state governments around the country develop their own innovation policies . Bradley Delamare , CEO of Tank Stream Labs , said the Melbourne vs Sydney debate distracts from the " real issues " affecting Australian startups . " The competition should n't be between cities , it should be between Australia and the rest of the world , " he said . " Ensuring the success of Australian companies should be the number one priority of the Australian government and the local startup community more generally . A great innovation ecosystem takes a national effort . If the states and cities band together to promote growth in the nation 's startup sector , Australian companies can become global players . " York Butter Factory 's general manager , Jason Lim , added , " We strongly believe that if interstate governments , incubators , coworking spaces and other stakeholders collaborate we can greatly improve the outcomes for Australian startups . " Our goal in entering into this partnership is to allow startups working from TSL and YBF to access the existing , supportive coworking networks each of the spaces has developed , making interstate travel more seamless . Growing companies need to be able to easily jump from place to place , we 're making that happen . " The Victorian and NSW governments have been bullish in their bid to make their respective states Australia 's premier tech hub , with Queensland too spending big through its Advance Queensland funding program to develop its startup landscape . Victoria has been keen to boast its chops by attracting international companies to Melbourne , with the government helping the likes of Alibaba , Zendesk , Slack , and GoPro establish their regional headquarters in the city . The Victorians haven't been shy about lording it over Sydney , either , famously promising Freelancer funding to rebrand SydStart to StartCon and bring it to Melbourne ( the plan then unceremoniously fell apart ) . The NSW government , for its part , has had a particular focus on fintech , making a significant effort to position Sydney as a fintech leader across the wider Asia Pacific region . TSL and YBF say the development of a national approach is key in the face of international coworking giants WeWork and RocketSpace launching locally - though cashed up , these players do n't yet have detailed knowledge of the Australian ecosystem or the partnerships with local corporates to help members progress , the locals believe . Also looking beyond its own cityscape is Sydney coworking institution Fishburners , which last year expanded into Brisbane .