The burgeoning startup ecosystem in Canada is recently gaining a flurry of mainstream attention and more and more eyes seem to be on the country 's hospitable environment for entrepreneurs . In 2016 , over $ 3 billion in Canadian venture capital deals were made , according to the Canadian Venture Capital & Private Equity Association . This momentum does n't appear to be stopping anytime soon , according to some industry players . Here are their takes on what 's fueling Canada 's startup industry . Ottawa - based Klipfolio is a SaaS analytics dashboards tool with customers in over 120 countries . The company has raised $ 19.6 M in venture funding to date .   Allan Wille , Klipfolio President and CEO , bootstrapped the company for several years and had thought that being acquired by a company south of the border was an inevitability .   " Five , six , seven years ago , I would have thought that an exit will come through an acquisition , and it will most likely happen with a US company . " Wille points to Canadian startups like Hootsuite and Vision Critical that have " resisted that early exit to a foreign company . " " I think there 's more of a ' we can do it here , all the way attitude . ' " Wille says that Canada 's strong talent pool and the foreign exchange market have caught the attention of US companies and investors . " We have started getting calls from US companies and recruiters to hire Canadians , but not move them to the States . They want to hire Canadians and keep them in Canada , because the salary , especially compared to the foreign exchange market , is way less expensive . I think we 're recognizing that there 's a talent pool and a hiring pool here that we can benefit from , and I think US investors are realizing that as well . " Wille also points to Canada 's tax credits that benefit early stage organizations investing in R&D projects and talent . As the General Partner of Real Ventures , a leading seed stage fund in Canada , Janet Bannister noted she continues to see the quality of Canadian entrepreneurs increase significantly year after year . " I 'm thrilled with what we 're seeing in the entrepreneurial ecosystem , right across the country . And I think of it of something like a snowball effect .   If you have a strong entrepreneur building a great company , it encourages other young entrepreneurs . It also trains a whole group of people . " " Those people will someday leave Shopify and start their own company or join another fast - growing company , and take the skills and expertise that they learnt . " Shopify COO Harley Finkelstein was recognized as ' Angel Investor of the Year ' at this year 's Canadian Startup Awards . In a statement , Finkelstein expressed that his role at Shopify has enabled him to invest in emerging Canadian startups . Shopify 's leaders may also endeavour to keep their M&A activity domestic , as four out of five of the companies they have acquired are Canada - based . Leo Lax , currently the Executive Managing Director of SaaS Accelerator L - SPARK [ disclosure : I work for L - SPARK ] has witnessed various segments in Canadian tech rise and fall . His career spans decades and it includes various roles within telecommunications companies in Ottawa . The city was widely known as Canada 's epicentre of telecom development until the industry grinded to a halt in the early 2000s .   Recently the region has transitioned to gaining recognition for thriving software firms and autonomous vehicle technology development .   Lax credits cities being known for a particular innovation as being critical to creating centres for entrepreneurial excellence . " Canada has a number of strong clusters , and those clusters have enabled certain regions to excel . " Typically the region boasts a global anchor company that lends itself to attracting like - mind companies and enables it to become a " rich and fertile place for entrepreneurs . " Lucy Screnci has written about tech , business and startups for the Ottawa Business Journal , Techopia and Techvibes.com . She is currently the editor for Voice of the North and is Digital Content Manager at L - SPARK , Canada 's SaaS Accelerator .