Is Portugal now focusing on launching startups instead of ships ? I do n't think we have to wait a few hundred years to see some great success stories from the Portuguese startup scene . Here are a few picks of my own in this yearly exercise of startup magic . Sorry for those who deserved to maintain last year nomination , but , you know , opportunities and so on . And for those who deserved to be here but did n't make it because of criteria and so forth . To all , keep pushing , we need you ! AgroInsider : Starting at EUR1 per hectare per year , agricultures can now be monitored by satellite . That 's the business of AgroInsider , that also combines sensors and analytics for better and larger crops , recently got EUR50,000 for feasibility studies funded by Horizon 2020 and a second prize at AgroExpo 2017 in Spain . Attentive : A sales intelligence agent that connects with the Web and integrates insights with your CRM ? That 's what Attentive has developed that attracted several advisors to an early investment round and got the company selected to 2017 Techstars ' Acceleration Program . DefinedCrowd : Consider Crowd - as - a - Service , add Machine Learning and take natural language processing to the next level , that 's DefinedCrowd recipe . Portugal Ventures , Amazon Alexa Fund , Sony Innovation Fund and Microsoft Ventures invest in the Portuguese company with bases in Lisbon and Seattle . FarmCloud : Say you own a pig farm and you 're just wondering how to gather and manage production data , then FarmCloud comes to hand with FarmConnector . The equipment launched this year is a plug & play , real - time , data enabler device that integrates controllers from different manufacturers with a cloud based software , to be available in real time . Infraspeak : The Porto based Facility Management Platform provides facility managers , either from hospitals , banks or hotels , with maintenance management tools . In 2016 Infraspeak participated in the Lisbon Challenge and 500 Startups programs and this year they are already looking for international expansion . knok : Also dubbed " Uber for Doctors " and last years ' " most investable " startup according to the Global Investment Forum , knok healthcare developed a mobile platform where patients can get an appointment with a doctor based on current location , either immediately or by appointment . The Porto - based startup completed a PS300k seed round with London 's Mustard Seed , to expand services in Portugal and other countries . ProdSmart : Very Industry 4.0 , Prodsmart provides real time , sensor based information from production lines and user inputs , transforming any factory in a digital smart factory . The subscription based Manufacturing Execution System won Startup Lisboa Boost and Caixa Empreender Award , securing EUR200k in financing , on top of being the winners of Microsoft 's sponsored Startup Challenge . That 's all from Portugal , see you soon !