Evidence is vital for a startup to keep growing . Startups are regularly making enterprise - level sales at every stage of the cycle , from initial conversations with potential prospects to account growth , and without a little information , the wrong decision is only a meeting away . The primary indicator of insufficient evidence is prospects continually asking for validation of a product 's claims . After all , B2B models are rigorous , and there 's no room for hope when the bottom line is at stake . On the flip side , strong evidence can separate you from the competition and give your customers confidence while communicating your startup 's expertise . The importance of research - based evidence is heaviest in healthcare technology , where decision makers are accustomed to clinical trial - level evidence . That said , evidence is equally important in all industries . Here 's how to utilize it at every step of your startup 's growth : Lead with research - based proof of value creation that addresses a current problem for your client . Then , you 'll be able to get a second meeting by addressing a long - standing pain point the organization has struggled with . Potential partners will judge your credibility by the level of evidence you cite upfront . Although the randomized controlled trial -- in which participants are arbitrarily sorted into treatment or placebo groups -- is the gold standard of clinical evidence , the model can be extended to the rest of the technology world . RCTs tease out variables that could skew your data and can put a prospective customer 's mind at ease . However , the evidence you quote must mirror your audience 's situation . Make sure your finance people know to make sure there 's probable ROI for every budgeted line item . Give them what they need ! Help them defend the decision to purchase your product with logic and financial modeling . Use a consultative approach to determine what effects your product can have on the financial people 's bottom line and whether an opportunity exists for top - line growth . Build a spreadsheet comparing your product 's value with its cost . Include industry - accepted assumptions with references and the evidence that your product has proven itself in similar situations . Along with price , consider employee allocation -- efficiency is the path to large corporations ' hearts . After you 've signed a contract , post - purchase adoption of new tech is how you get users to realize the value of your product . The best - case scenario is that you engaged users during the decision - making process and they 're excited to get started . But that 's not always the case . If users see your product as something to stress about , testimonials can be the most valuable evidence . Give users a case study , and reference anecdotes of users with similar roles . Your end users generally wo n't have budget oversight , so restrict the evidence to how your product can save time and make their jobs easier . Your ability to scale is how you grow accounts -- communication with the lead decision maker is key . Even if you ca n't meet with the purchasing authority in person , keep them updated with reports of progress and value created . During implementation , goals should be explicitly laid out for the term of your agreement . These reports should address progress toward achieving those goals . When you identify additional opportunities for your product 's use , decision makers must be confident your product will continue producing positive effects . This confidence comes from seeing evidence that the product is already providing value . About half of startup businesses last longer than four years . Beat the odds by building your startup 's own road map to success . Provide evidence that your product works and that it positively affects a company 's bottom line -- and that it can grow to meet companies ' evolving needs . Read more about startup success here on Tech . Co  