The taxi - hailing app is considered both brilliant and controversial , depending on who you ask . Here we 've documented the company 's journey to a $ 50 billion valuation . Disclaimer : it 's been a bit of a bumpy one ... 13 April 2017 Using a software programme called ' Hell ' , Uber has been secretly tracking Lyft drivers , The Information reports . Uber used ' Hell ' to create fake Lyft accounts which meant it could monitor how many drivers were available for new rides and what their location was . This comes a few months after Uber staff were caught spying on celebrities and former partners using a tool called ' God 's View ' , now called Heaven . Read more on this below . 10 April 2017 Uber has been ordered to stop all activities across the entirety of Italy , Reuters reports . The ban comes after courts ruled that Uber represents unfair competition for taxi drivers , claiming that Uber does n't respect transportation laws . Uber has been granted 10 days to stop all its activities including any advertising and marketing campaigns . After that , the company must pay EUR10,000 ( PS8,533 ) per day if it continues to operate . 20 March 2016 After joining the company less than six months ago , Uber president Jeff Jones is stepping down , in a move that was " completely unexpected " by colleagues . The BBC reports that Jones grew frustrated that a new COO was being appointed and he was not being considered for the position . However , according to Recode , Jones 's departure is due to Uber 's ongoing controversies surrounding sexism and sexual harassment . In a statement on Sunday Uber said : " We want to thank Jeff for his six months at the company and wish him all the best . " Read more here . 13 March 2017 Uber announced last week that it 's shutting down its UberTAXI service in London , as of the 31 March 2017 .   Launched in 2014 , UberTAXI lets Uber customers hail black cabs through its mobile app , rather than a normal Uber car . " Since we first launched UberTAXI , hundreds of black cab drivers have taken tens of thousands of trips through the Uber app . However , in recent months , those numbers have tailed off , " said Uber in a blog post published Friday afternoon . " At Uber we always want our riders to be able to get a car whenever they want and wherever they are - no matter which option on our app they choose . That hasn't been the case recently with UberTAXI , which is why we will be ending this option on 31 March , " it added . In the statement , Uber said that it would be focusing on car - sharing options and even fully electric cars . 1 March 2017 Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has apologised after a video obtained by Bloomberg showed him in a heated exchange with Uber driver Fawzi Kamel . Kamel expressed his distress at the way Uber treats its drivers , even telling the CEO : " I 'm bankrupt because of you " . " You 're raising the standards , and you 're dropping the prices , " said Kamel . " People are not trusting you anymore . I lost $ 97,000 because of you . I 'm bankrupt because of you . " Kamel then added : " You keep changing every day . " In response , Kalanick said : " Some people do n't like to take responsibility for their own shit . They blame everything in their life on somebody else . Good luck ! " Then he proceeded to slam the car door . 24 February 2017 Waymo is taking legal action against Otto , a self - driving vehicle company bought by Uber last year for $ 700 m . Uber is being sued for stealing trade secrets and technology , according to the BBC . The lawsuit alleges that Anthony Levandowski , a former Waymo employee , took information from Waymo by ' downloading 14,000 highly confidential and proprietary design files ' before moving on to cofound Otto . " Our parent company Alphabet has long worked with Uber in many areas , and we did n't make this decision lightly , " said Waymo in a blog post . 3 February 2017 Following heavy criticism of Uber 's practices during recent anti - Trump protests , Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has stepped down from Donald Trump 's economic advisory council . Kalanick said that his participation was ' misinterpreted ' as an endorsement of Trump 's agenda . " Earlier today I spoke briefly with the president about the immigration executive order and its issues for our community . " I also let him know that I would not be able to participate on his economic council . Joining the group was not meant to be an endorsement of the president or his agenda but unfortunately it has been misinterpreted to be exactly that , " said Kalanick in an email to Uber employees obtained by the Guardian . 2 February 2017 After the protests against Trump 's executive order banning refugees and nationals of seven Muslim countries last week , Uber was accused of trying to profit from the protest . This has led to over 200,000 people deleting their Uber accounts following the # DeleteUber boycott , according to a report from The New York Times . 14 December 2016 Uber 's self - driving cars will pick up passengers in the San Francisco area today . This expansion of Uber 's Pittsburg trial earlier this year involves each enabled Volvo SUV housing a safety driver and an Uber test engineer to take start manually driving the car when needed and monitor the smart technology . All passengers need to do is request an uberX using the standard consumer - facing mobile app . 13 December 2016 According to reports , Uber employees have been spying on celebrities and former partners . Uber staff used its ' God 's View ' feature to monitor the movements of " high - profile politicians , celebrities and even personal acquaintances of Uber employees , including ex - boyfriends / girlfriends , and ex - spouses " , wrote Samuel Ward Spangenberg 's , Uber 's former forensic investigator . Earlier this year Spangenberg was fired from Uber over age discrimination . Uber told Reveal in a statement : " we have hundreds of security and privacy experts working around the clock to protect our data . This includes enforcing to authorised employees solely for purposes of their job responsibilities , and all potential violations are quickly and thoroughly investigated . " Uber also said that its " God View " tool no longer existed , instead opting for an internal tool called " Heaven View " . 26 October 2016 Uber has joined forces with AB InBev to transport 50,000 bottles of Budweiser , in what is thought to be the world 's first self - driving commercial delivery .   The truck transported the beer more than 120 miles with police vehicles in tow , with reports suggesting the truck driver was relaxing in the back sleeping cab .   16 September 2016 From today Uber will be collecting images of UK city streets , starting with London . According to the BBC , these images will be used to determine the best pick - up and drop - off points around the city with plans to expand mapping activities to Leeds , Manchester and Birmingham . This image data will most likely aid Uber 's driverless cars ambitions . 14 September 2016 During an interview with Bloomberg last month , Uber CEO Travis Kalanick revealed that it will deploy around 100 ' driverless cars ' in Pittsburgh .   Each vehicle will be fitted with self - driving capabilities and be staffed by one engineer , designed to take control of the car if needed and a co - pilot to note its progress , with the addition of a computer to record trips and map their data . This move comes after Uber acquired Otto , a startup aiming to deliver autonomy to lorries and trucks . Numerous reports have suggested Uber may use these capabilities in its own driverless car plan , or potentially its own driverless lorry business . 18 August 2016 Uber is taking legal action against London 's transport authority TFL over its plans to force Uber drivers to pass a written exam in English .   The legal battle centres on TFL 's new rules for private hire drivers that require people from non - English speaking countries to take ( and pass ) a mandatory written English test costing PS200 . In addition to this , Uber has taken issue with TfL 's rule that drivers must be covered by commercial insurance during out - of - work hours . 29 June 2016 Uber has been operating in London since 2012 when it launched 90 cars in the capital . In the same year Uber rolled out services to Toronto and Sydney with a soft launch in Singapore taking place in early 2013 .   19 November 2015 Uber has introduced a new feature which allows all of its users to switch between their personal and business profiles , so that business trips are charged straight back to the company . This will cut down on the need to keep receipts and file expense forms , but could also lead to some red faces if users forget to switch between accounts .   Read more here . The man in charge of Uber 's international expansion is leaving the taxi - app company , following regulatory challenges in Europe . Neil Wass , the senior vice president for Europe , Middle East and Africa and Asia - Pacific will leave Uber at the end of the year , according to the Financial Times . 8 May 2015 Taxi - app Uber has bid for Nokia 's Here mapping business in a bid to reduce its dependence on Google , reports suggest .   Read more here .    27 April 2015 A US court is mulling over a bill that would subject Massachusetts - based drivers for companies like Uber and Lyft to criminal background checks .   That safety provision is just one outlined in a bill that is designed to regulate ride - sharing companies without stifling them . Read more here .   21 April 2015 A court case that alleges Uber discriminates against blind passengers will be allowed to proceed despite an attempt by Uber to have it thrown out , a California judge ruled .   The lawsuit , which concerns several alleged incidents in which Uber drivers refused service to blind passengers with service animals , represents another battle over whether Uber should be governed by the sale rules that cover taxis , buses and other public transportation companies . Read more here .   20 March 2015   Uber is in a standoff with the government over whether or not it is part of the sharing economy in the UK , Techworld can reveal .   The San Francisco - headquartered company has expressed an interest in joining the newly - created , government - backed Sharing Economy UK ( SEUK ) trade body but there are a number of obstacles that need to be overcome beforehand . Read more here . 19 March 2015 Taxi companies in California have sued Uber Technologies in a federal court , charging the ride - hailing smartphone app company with misleading advertising regarding the safety of its rides . Uber has made false and misleading advertisements regarding the safety of rides on its UberX platform , and criticised the safety of taxi rides offered by the taxi companies , the 19 firms said in a lawsuit filed Wednesday in the US District Court for the Northern District of California , San Francisco division . Read more here .   11 March 2015 The two companies want to classify their drivers as contractors rather than employees , which means they are not subject to employment protection law . In separate cases , two federal judges said the status of the companies ' drivers will need to be decided by juries . If the drivers are considered employees , they could be entitled to minimum wages and any tips that customers pay , as well as other benefits . In that sense , the case is seen as a legal test that could affect other companies in the " sharing economy . " Read more here .   4 March 2015 Uber has bought mapping and location company deCarta in a bid to both improve its driver performance and develop new services . California - based DeCarta   holds a variety of data pertaining to mapping , local search and turn - by - turn navigation . Its global location based services were used by Google Maps ( 2005 - 2008 ) and are used today by GM OnStar , Ford Sync , Samsung , Inrix , Blackberry and over 25 mobile operators worldwide . Read more here 3 March 2015 Uber founders Travis Kalanick and Garrett Camp are new arrivals in the Forbes annual ranking of the world 's billionaires , with a net worth each of $ 5.3bn . Ryan Graves , who five years ago reputedly replied " hire me :) " to a tweet about a job with an unknown startup , is now worth $ 1.4bn . Nice money if you can get it , but old new technology money dominates the rankings .... Read more here 2 March 2015 The names and license plate numbers of about 50,000 Uber drivers were compromised in a security breach last year , the company revealed Friday . Read more here 25 February 2015 Uber is set to start rewarding its customers each time they stay in a particular hotel .   The ride - hailing service is teaming up with Starwood Hotels & Resorts to boost the use of its app among the well - traveled crowd . Through the partnership , members of Starwood 's guest loyalty program can link their accounts with Uber accounts and earn Starwood credits whenever they take an Uber ride . They 'll earn more credits if they take the ride while staying in one of the hotel company 's 1,200 properties in 100 countries . Read more here .   20 February 2015 Uber released more stocks in a bid to raise an extra $ 1 billion and meet investor demand .   The latest expansion brings the total amount of money Uber raised from the funding round to $ 2.8 billion . The extra cash injection does n't increase Uber 's valuation , which is still $ 40 billion . Read more here .   3 February 2015 Google has already invested at least $ 258 million into Uber but there are a few reasons why a complete buyout makes perfect sense . The companies are heading in some of the same directions . Both Uber and Google are now working on driverless car technology and transportation and delivery services . Uber announced the creation of the " Uber Advanced Technologies Centre " in Pittsburgh through a partnership with Carnegie Mellon University , which will focus on long - term technology in the areas of mapping , vehicle safety and " autonomy technology . " Were Google to acquire Uber , it might head off a possible confrontation between the companies as both push deeper into developing similar services . Read more here .    3 February 2015 Uber will open a technology centre near the Carnegie Mellon University to help put driverless cars on the road . The research team , based near the Carnegie Mellon campus in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , will focus on mapping , car safety technology and driverless robotics . Read more here .   29 January 2015 A passenger who says she was raped and sexually assaulted by an Uber driver in New Delhi sues Uber in a US court , alleging that the company was negligent and that its commitment to passenger safety comes second to profits . Read more here .    19 Janurary 2015 Uber promises 50,000 new jobs in Europe in 2015 alone , in an bid to get more cities on the continent to approve its ride - hailing service . Read more here .    19 January 2015 Can Uber still be classed as a startup if CEO Travis Kalanick successfully creates 50,000 jobs across Europe this year ? The company believes it can , but others are n't so sure .   Many of the world 's largest technology companies , including Google and Facebook , still consider themselves to be startups in one sense or another . Indeed , they see being a startup as more of a state of mentality as opposed to how old the company is , how large its revenues are or how many staff it employs .   When asked if Uber is still a startup , a spokesperson for the company said : " I have not heard otherwise . " Read more here .   13 January 2015   Boston city officials will be the first to dip their fingers into Uber 's pot of data , under new plans laid out by the mobile car - summoning service . The effort , Uber says , is geared toward city planning in areas that include managing urban growth as well as improving traffic flows and congestion . By seeing how residents travel across a city , for instance , municipalities might have better information for creating or reducing parking zones , Uber says . Uber 's data would add to the trip records from traditional taxi and other car service providers that local regulators already receive . Read more here .   8 January 2015 Troublesome Uber is encountering opposition from courts and taxi drivers in nearly every city it operates in . The extent of the controversies has made it difficult for some people to keep up , but data analysts at Silk have now created a number of visualisations depicting each of Uber 's regulatory conflicts around the world . Read more here .   7 January 2015 Uber has expanded its driver perks programme from the US to the UK as part of an effort to sign up more taxi drivers to its service . Read more here .   6 January 2015 Uber is expanding aggressively worldwide but it is clearly chasing some markets more than others . Data released at the end of last year by data analysis firm Silk suggests that Uber is particularly keen on growing its operations in Asia . Uber wants to recruit 144 non - drivers in Asia , 81 in Europe , 29 in South America , 28 in Oceania , 17 in Africa and six in the Middle East , according to data sent to Techworld at the end of December . In the UK , Uber is recruiting for 13 positions , with seven of those falling under operations , two under local marketing and support and two under public policy and communication . There are no engineering positions being advertised in the UK , despite the well - established engineering communities around clusters like London 's Silicon Roundabout and Cambridge . Read more here .    15 December 2014 Uber is offering the public free journeys after it was criticised for upping the price of journeys around the area where hostages are being held in Sydney , Australia . Uber increased fares by four times due to high demand in Sydney 's central business district ( CBD ) following a hostage crisis in a cafe . Read more here .   