Going public is a big deal for any company . It requires months of preparation , years of hard work , and decades of innovative thinking . And if you 're pay attention , it can be easy to spot these companies before they make the move . And while I do n't like to peddle in speculation , there are some signs at the Portland company that Vets First Choice could be preparing for an IPO . Vets First Choice is one of Maine 's most successful startups of the last dozen years . Within the last few months , the company began looking to bring onboard a new corporate counsel . Included in the job posting is this revealing sentence : " Public company experience in a growth stage company required . " Ben Shaw , cofounder and CEO of Vets First Choice Rather than beat around the bush , I interviewed Ben Shaw , the company 's cofounder and CEO , about the job search and whether the company is preparing to file an S-1 ( the paperwork a company must file with the SEC to signal its intention to sell shares to the public ) in 2017 . Shaw 's response was telling . " We have several open job postings which are fairly specific about job experience and we have publicly presented at major key investment conferences this year , " Shaw said . " However , neither is a guarantee of our plans , and we are maintaining optionality . " The company is making the rounds at major investment conferences and advertising for executives with public company experience , but is still leaving its options open . That 's fair . Not every company that explores the possibility of going public follows through on the process . After all , while going public can raise a lot of working capital for the company , being publicly traded , and the scrutiny that brings , also comes with a lot of headaches which is why you see more and more high - growth tech companies remaining private . " I think Vets First Choice is capable of and prepared to operate as a public company , " Shaw said . Ever since Tim Ludlow , Vets First Choice 's CFO , spoke at a PubHub last spring , I 've had my money on the company providing Maine with its next big liquidity event . Founded in 2010 , Vets First Choice provides online pharmacy services for veterinary practices , which allows your local vet to have its own fully - stocked online pharmacy to compete with major online pet drugstores like 1 - 800-PetMeds and Petcarerx.com . The most recent official revenue figure we gathered from last year 's Inc. 5,000 list , where the company ranked # 1,232 and reported revenue of $ 60.9 million in 2015 . Ludlow gave me some sense of how that number has grown . He suggested during last spring 's talk that its revenue had grown at the same rate as its employee count , which at the time had reached 300 companywide . After doing some math , it 's a safe guess that the company has surpassed $ 100 million in revenue . Reaching $ 100 million in revenue has traditionally been a milestone that signaled a private company 's readiness to go public . That revenue threshold is less important these days as high - growth startups have raised millions of dollars ( sometimes billions in the case of Uber ) from private sources . But for the sake of this article , let 's assume Vets First Choice checks that box . The company already has an executive with public - company experience : Ludlow himself . He was previously the assistant treasurer and vice president of corporate finance for Bristol - Myers Squibb ( NYSE : BMY ) . Vets First Choice , which has raised more than $ 60 million , has investors and advisors with vast experience taking companies public . These investors have board seats and have demonstrated their fondness for companies head down the IPO route . Finally , while not necessarily a sign that a company is preparing to go public as much as it is a sign of the company 's stability , its largest investor is a private equity firm . New York - based Clayton , Dubilier & Rice led a $ 52 million investment round in the company in 2015 . Private equity firms , as opposed to VC firms , usually invest in more mature , stable companies , which also happen to be the best candidates for entering the public markets . So , as Ben Shaw told me , Vets First Choice appears prepared to pursue an IPO . The question remains whether it wants to or not . Read more about the Maine startup ecosystem here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of Maine Startups Insider , created by Whit Richardson , a journalist who 's covered Maine 's business community for the past decade . Visit Maine Startups Insider to read more about Maine 's startup community and subscribe to the weekly newsletter .