( BigStock Photo )   Xiao Wang is an immigrant success story . He came to the U.S. from Nanjing at three and went on to earn advanced degrees from Stanford and Harvard Business School before jumping into leadership roles in tech . For the past three years , he 's been a senior product manager on Amazon Go , the Seattle retailer 's ambitious new convenience store operation . Now Wang is working to ensure immigrants , like himself , have access to the same opportunities . This month , Wang left his role at Amazon to co - found and run Boundless , a spinout of Seattle - based startup studio Pioneer Square Labs . The startup is in stealth mode and Wang and Pioneer Square Labs are n't saying much , but its website pledges to " provide the tools , community , and personalized support applicants need to take charge of their immigration journey . " In today 's charged political climate where President Donald Trump has sparked fears with his immigration policy , Boundless sees an opening to create a successful business . The startup will initially focus on bringing dispersed immigrant families together in the U.S. , according to a Facebook post by Pioneer Square Labs co - founder Ben Gilbert . It aims to be a resource for immigrants trying to navigate America 's tumultuous political climate and those facing financial barriers to obtaining a visa or green card . The process can be laborious and families often have to shell out thousands of dollars for immigration attorneys . " We believe there is a better way , " writes Wang in an essay on Boundless 's website . " Technology can process and synthesize the vast amount of information better than the best human expert , faster , clearer , and at a much lower cost . With these tools , we can empower every current or future immigrant with the information , guidance , and support they need to confidently take control of their journey . " Pioneer Square Labs has a unique model for quickly testing and validating new startup ideas before bringing in an executive team to spin them out . The studio , co - founded by Greg Gottesman , Geoff Entress , Mike Galgon , and Gilbert , recently moved to a new building adjacent to the Impact HUB downtown . Before Boundless , PSL spun out sales tax reporting startup LumaTax , an advertisement monitoring company called Ad Lightning , and JetClosing , which digitally streamlines the real estate purchasing process . Boundless is the startup studio 's fourth spinout and the timing is no accident . The startup 's website addresses President Trump 's executive orders and his administration 's attitude toward immigration head on : Most executive orders are not self - executing . It is possible for a President to order some changes that take effect immediately , as we have seen . Most elements of an executive order , however , direct a federal agency to undertake new and time - consuming efforts -- issuing a new regulation , for example , or forming a commission to make new policy recommendations . Such actions typically take years to play out ... No President has the last word on immigration . Although our laws tend to give the executive branch wide discretion in carrying out immigration policy , Congress has the power to rewrite these laws . Judges will block or overturn those actions deemed outside the bounds of Congressional intent or the Constitution . State and local governments will make decisions about how they want to treat immigrant issues within their own borders . Boundless 's website includes resources , including information about President Trump 's executive order on immigration , which is currently stalled by federal court rulings . On Thursday , Trump announced he will not further appeal the executive order . Instead , he plans to issue a revised version next week . The uncertainty surrounding U.S. immigration policy is sending shockwaves of anxiety through the tech community , which relies on a diverse talent pool for a number of reasons . " This is a big and complex challenge , and we are excited to take it on , " Wang writes on Boundless 's website . " Twenty - eight years ago , my parents gave up everything so that I can have the opportunities I have today . And now , we have the privilege and obligation to help as many others as possible achieve their own dreams . "