As a startup , it 's not always easy to identify when it 's time to make a change . Many companies go through multiple iterations before they can find market fit . When we last spoke to the team at Flipgrid in 2015 , they were in the growth stages of building out a consumer video messaging app , Vidku , carving out their niche in a world where Snapchat , Instagram , and Facebook were battling in a land war for users . Flipgrid , a social learning platform that enables teachers and students to interact using video , eventually decided to refocus their efforts . Though initially launched with a focus on education , Flipgrid attempted to expand their scope and adapt the platform for everyone to use . Having found some success and a sizable funding round , the team was split between two offerings , which also hampered growth . More recently , they made a conscious effort to solely focus on the education driven app . Having done so , Flipgrid not only had an explosive year of growth , their renewed product focus has allowed the company to expand their solution even further with a free offering . " In the past 12 months , we 've seen 400% or more in growth , are now on all continents . Since January , we 're up 900% . Every day there are about 10 thousand new students onboarded each day , and engagement is going up as well . From August 1 , 2016 until December 31 , every 19 seconds of every day a new student uploaded a video . The app saw 700,000 downloads across the iPad , iPhone and Android , " said Charlie Miller , Flipgrid cofounder and chief design officer . With an open - ended concept , the platform empowers teachers to find creative ways to interact with students , allowing everyone in a classroom to discuss specific topics . In fact , the team specifically prefers to keep the uses of the platform open as they feel teachers and students find the most creative uses for it . This also opens the platform up to a student 's parents , giving them insight into how their child interacts in the classroom . Now in more than 40,000 classrooms , Flipgrid is sparking conversations across the globe . Their newest solution , Flipgrid One , will allow teachers free access to a single - grid version of their platform . When asked why the team decided to initially deviate away from education , Flipgrid cofounder and CEO Jim Leslie said it came down to the users . " Students and teachers were using it a lot [ Flipgrid ] , as we were building we had a lot of non - education users , so we built out vidku . What was really interesting , as we were getting feedback from those users , is that the use cases were education based . We decided on going back to the roots of education , taking a lot of the social media features that were important to Vidku and apply the to flipgrid , " said Leslie . It was feedback from their users , teachers in particular , that also led to the development of their new free offering . " We had a call with top 30 or so long time users for feedback , " said Miller . " They asked , ' what do you do when a teacher has it ( premium ) and a classroom / teacher who does n't ? ' The other class ca n't benefit from it or the content . So now no matter what we do , our focus is on how we can empower student voice . Within a week we quickly agreed on a solution , and that 's where Flipgrid One came from . So far the feedback has been incredible . "