GV general partner Krishna Yeshwant GV Dr. Krishna Yeshwant has a lot on his plate . In addition to practicing internal medicine , Yeshwant is a general partner at GV ( formerly Google Ventures ) , where he leads the Life Sciences team . His team has invested in companies like 23andMe , Foundation Medicine , and Flatiron Health . And Yeshwant 's not the only one on his team that 's active in his field . Another team member works as a researcher at Harvard , another is a professor at Dartmouth , and one is also a physician . It was n't necessarily a conscious choice to hire in people who still had another job , but they soon realized that as life science investors , they could take advantage of the observations they made at their other gigs . " You need to be in the field to see how it 's evolving , " Yeshwant said . " In the investor role , you make an investment , then you do n't know what happens for five years , seven years , 10 years , and so you can often ' drink your own Kool - aid . ' " Because Yeshwant 's with patients frequently , he ca n't be all that removed . " In the end , it 's always a good reminder that this stuff has to get to a patient to be in any way meaningful , " he said . One example of a time when Yeshwant took his experience in the doctor 's office and applied it to an investment was Quartet Health , a New York - based behavioral health startup . Yeshwant had noticed that patients were coming in with physical health complaints , such as a rash or joint pain , but there often was n't enough time to address some of the mental conditions that could be playing a role in these physical problems . " We often do n't talk about the underlying depression , the anxiety , the issues that actually ultimately affect all those other conditions , " he said . GV spent years looking for companies that could tackle that before coming across Quartet . It 's also informed what he 's on the look - out for in future investments , including adherence , or making sure patients take their prescribed medication , and physician burnout .