( BigStock Photo ) .   ( Updated Jan. 18 to reflect the correct date the rule takes effect ) . The Department of Homeland Security has officially published a provision to make it easier for immigrant entrepreneurs to build startups in the U.S. The rule , proposed by President Barack Obama last summer , will take effect July 17 . The rule was proposed as a workaround for foreign entrepreneurs after Congress failed to pass meaningful immigration reform . There is n't a great avenue for business leaders from other countries to build companies in the U.S. because visas , like the H1B , only apply to skilled employees , not startup founders . GeekWire reported on the so - called " International Entrepreneur Rule " when it was first proposed in August , and followed up with reactions from immigrant business leaders and experts on the subject . The initial rule outlined a " parole " period that foreign entrepreneurs could apply for , granting two years in the U.S. to grow a startup . To qualify , the founder had to prove that the startup met certain requirements and demonstrated the potential for " significant public benefit . " After the initial parole period , the founder could apply to extend his or her stay in the U.S. for an additional three years , if the startup met additional benchmarks . Over the past five months , DHS has been collecting public feedback on the proposal to inform the final rule . That comment period led to a few key changes to the final rule , enacted today . Instead of a two - year period followed by a three - year period , the rule now says entrepreneurs can apply for an initial parole of 2.5 years , followed by an extended period of 2.5 additional years . The proposed rule said startups needed to have investments of at least $ 345,000 from qualified U.S. investors to apply for parole . DHS has reduced that minimum required investment to $ 250,000 . The official rule also gives entrepreneurs more time to land funding -- 18 months instead of one year . The final rule also reduces the ownership stake the founder needs to have to qualify . Instead of 15 percent , entrepreneurs need to own only 10 percent of the startup to qualify for the initial parole period . To re - apply for an additional 2.5 years , founders just need 5 percent ownership . In the proposed rule , a startup had to generate at least 10 jobs during the initial 2.5-year parole period to qualify for an extension . That number has been reduced to five jobs in the final rule . Generally speaking , the final rule loosens up on a number of benchmarks necessary to qualify for the parole , responding to criticism that the proposed requirements were too restrictive . It allows for startups to use " alternative criteria " to demonstrate they 'll benefit the U.S. economy . The final rule also has more relaxed requirements for qualified investments , qualified investors and startup entities . Explore the full International Entrepreneur Rule below . International Entrepreneur Parole by GeekWire on Scribd    