Ed tech -- the software , hardware , and integrated systems that are increasingly powering every level of education -- has sprung up quickly around the world . The industry is getting crowded enough that we were able to cover a top 12 list of the highest funded ed tech startups in New York alone . But any rapid growth is plagued with challenges . One of the biggest , second only to thinning educational budgets , is security . Here 's Larry Johnson , CEO of New Media Consortium , in a 2015 statement on the issue : " If we do n't solve the concerns that people have about big data and privacy of students , we 're going to miss a huge opportunity . " Has the security problem been resolved in the years since this statement ? A new survey does n't look great . Common Sense Education 's Privacy Evaluation Institute surveyed more than 1,000 ed tech vendors . The results : " Only 52 percent of the vendor websites require encryption of login and personal information . The rest of the sites surveyed either do n't require encryption ( 20 percent ) or are n't built to support it ( 25 percent ) " Like Fintech , ed tech requires large databases for its network of clients , making it a potential target for hackers . In order to stay safe , educators should reexamine their deals with ed tech providers to ensure their information is protected properly . When some ed tech vendors ca n't be trusted , the security is best enacted on the teachers ' side . " The big challenge is the education of adults , teachers and administrators , so that they 're aware of laws and best practices , " Craig Bates , coordinator of instructional technology at Talladega County ( Ala. ) Schools , told Ed Tech Magazine . " You can put policies in place , but there 's no software or other tool that can enforce them . Education is the best defense because that 's what can lead to everyone being diligent . " It appears that being educated on the best security practices already is now the best way to further educate your students .