Global cannabis software and point of sales solutions company Guardian Data Software ( GDS ) has announced a partnership with Australian medical cannabis accelerator BuddingTech that will see the organisation act as an analytical engine and business consultancy for GDS clients , while working towards new research initiatives . BuddingTech , a Sydney - based organisation which emerged in 2015 , identifies startups working with cannabis technology and research , and looks to support them towards commercialising their ideas for the Asia Pacific medical cannabis market . Besides the accelerator , BuddingTech also offers consultation services , and holds a medical cannabis resource database filled with surveys and analytical white paper reports . Under the new agreement , which was penned at Israeli cannabis innovation conference , CannaTech Israel , GDS clients will be able to leverage the startup 's analytical research and consultancy services , allowing the company to expand its service offerings . The companies will also work together to launch new educational and research programs regarding botanical and medical cannabis , as well as look into identifying new areas where they can acquire industry data to empower their ability to serve cannabis businesses , in addition to the financial and government sectors . Guardian Data Software 's CEO , Lance Ott , described the partnership as a " win - win " for both companies , saying BuddingTech will also benefit from leveraging GDS ' wide framework of data to improve the accuracy and detail of its analytics and reports . " With medical cannabis sales projected to grow from $ 4.7 billion in 2016 to $ 13.3 billion in 2020 , we believe BuddingTech has a great deal to offer our customers who are hungry for data and additional business support , " he said . Ott added that GDS looked to BuddingTech as a " logical " partner as both companies have achieved an international market presence , each growing within Europe , Israel and other regions outside of the US . As for Australia , BuddingTech CEO Adam Miller said the country is " uniquely positioned " to become a leader in botanical and medical cannabis research . " Within less than two years , the Australian government has developed a federal framework to support the domestic cultivation and manufacturing of medical cannabis . Australia is now uniquely positioned to become a leader in the field of botanical and medical research ; data will play a vital role to support the developing industry , " he said . Since October last year , the use of medical cannabis for patients with chronic or painful illnesses became legal under the Narcotic Drugs Amendment Act , with the drug being supplied through both a Victorian cultivation site and import into Australia on a case - by - case basis . While local cultivation looks to increase to meet medical demand , a new scheme recently approved by the Federal Government aims to improve accessibility by fast tracking importation from overseas sources . While the government works on a temporary accessibility solution , the startup sector has looked towards navigating the regulatory , technological and logistical frameworks surrounding medical cannabis . Last year saw the University of Sydney host Australia 's first ever pitch event for innovative medical cannabis technology , dubbed ' Seedlings ' , to support startups working with medical cannabis tech . The event , moderated by BuddingTech , looked at identifying startups addressing issues in the area of education , patient interaction , and clinical research .