Between manipulated voting numbers , shady Russian intervention and rumours of bribery , last year 's US Presidential election highlighted the fundamental need for transparency within a democracy . Regardless of where someone stands when discussing the new President , one can surely agree that the entire election process has triggered the global public to rethink the importance of honesty and communication within not only governments , but large corporates and organisations too . OurSay is a Melbourne - based startup working to facilitate transparency and communication between organisations and civilians using an online platform .   Acting as a middleman , the startup allows clients to form discussion forums and targeted surveys which are then shared with a selected audience . Using a management dashboard , a client is then able to visualise the numerical and written data received to help inform their decisions .   Describing it as a " self - serve " platform for democracy and public engagement , OurSay cofounders Eyal Halamish and Matt Gordon said , " The platform is supported by a team of activists , ex - public servants and technologists to help customers become more transparent , faithful and comprehensive in the way they engage communities . " The business emerged in 2010 after the founders tested the concept of an unbiased discussion and analytical platform with media at local , state and federal levels , as well as an unnamed Prime Minister .   As to where the idea for OurSay came from , Gordon andHalamish attributed it to a decline in government trust over the last ten years . " According to the Edelman Trust Barometer , a global , annual piece of research looking into trust across a number of sectors each year , trust in public institutions is at an all time low . In particular , people feel governments have stopped listening and valuing community feedback , " said Halamish . Halamish added that it 's often difficult for governments to hear from people beyond the " usual suspects " , while the public often prefers to engage with governments using an independent moderator .   " This is apparent in both offline and online contexts . Having an independent moderator like OurSay builds civilian trust in the public engagement process , " he said . Through the platform , users are able to create a forum discussion post in addition to surveys which are based on a particular topic they want to gain insight on .   The founders said that although governments are a focus , OurSay also sources customers from banking , finance , education , health and non - government organisations . " Most of our customers are community engagement experts , communications staff or policy wonks in Local and State Government who need to consult with the public , " explained Halamish and Gordon .   With a substantial variety of industries on board , the cofounders added that customers are looking for insights on everything from strenuous planning decisions through to local potholes that need mending . " Recently we helped the Victorian state government allocate $ 10 M in drought - relief funding to communities in the North Western region , " said Halamish and Gordon . " This project raised many local needs from extra support for school aged children to providing better mental health first aid for farmers . " When a user creates a forum post , they 're able to get a link to share with the public using either email , social media or website embedment . When a discussion begins , OurSay moderates the forum to help ensure fairness , respect and " higher credibility " to the client . When survey and forum responses are received , the platform churns the data and visualises it on an online dashboard .   Aside from the expected ' total number ' data counters , OurSay presents a shelf of other useful information too , including the location of each respondent on a map interface . Data is visualised on the platform in graphs , and can be exported to an Excel document to keep locally or stored on the cloud for future use .   The cofounders explained that with both numerical and written data , the organisation is able to gain a comprehensive insight of the audience or community they serve - clients can then use this insight to make informed and logical decisions that reflect the data .    At the end of an engagement process , respondents are able to receive email updating them on how their contribution has been used by the client organisation . " Members of the public wishing to make a contribution provide some basic demographics and an email address , so we can keep them in the loop with how their feedback has made a difference , " said Halamish and Gordon .   The business did n't specify the exact cost of using the platform , explaining that OurSay is opting for a cheaper and lighter touch model that is trending in the software as a service market .   With a pre - seed round completed for the business last year from both institutional and angel investor contributions , Halamish said the startup is now looking to conduct a seed round in the near future . Moving forward , the cofounders said the business will continue to build out its features so OurSay can capture the " imagination " of the market .