Three Maine organizations are bringing a successful coding school to Maine in an effort to increase the public 's access to educational opportunities around software and web development , and to increase employers ' access to qualified developers . Earlier this week , Venture Hall , Thomas College , and Project Login , announced that they had signed an agreement with Seattle - based Code Fellows to launch a pilot project in Maine to teach software development classes . The pilot , which is set to launch this summer , will be used to determine a " product - market fit " with Maine and Maine employers looking to ramp up the coding abilities of their employees , according to Mike Sobol , CEO of Venture Hall . " Fitting the demand of workers and the interests of employers together will make the launch of the full Code Fellows program to Maine successful and sustainable , " Sobol said . The first two Code 101 classes will be held June 10 at Thomas College in Waterville and June 11 at Cloudport in Portland . The initial one - day course is $ 93.83 and people can register on the Venture Hall website . The idea going forward is to work with employers and other institutions to bring these introductory coding classes , and introduce more in - depth courses , throughout the state . Eventually , assuming the pilot is a success , the project will seek state certification to become a for - profit educational organization so it can offer the full Code Fellows curriculum , including Code 201 , 301 , and 401 level courses in advanced software development . " We believe in the power of a coding education and what it means for the future of Maine 's workforce and Maine 's innovation ecosystem , " said Laurie Lachance , president of Thomas College in Waterville . " This type of program , we believe , could be a critical tool for workers to develop new skills and for employers to offer employees new ways to get the training and skills they need to advance and be a part of their company 's success . " Code Fellows was founded in Seattle in 2013 to tackle a common problem in Maine : employers find it difficult to hire enough qualified developers . To date , 750 people have gone through the full Code Fellows curriculum . The organization reports that 80 percent of those graduates were hired " in - field " after an average job search of 11.5 weeks and average starting salary of more than $ 72,000 . Graduates , of which a full 77 percent had no professional coding background when they began the program , have most frequently found jobs as software engineers , back - end developers , web producers , full - stack developers , and software development engineers , according to the organization . " By offering industry - leading curriculum to create professional developers in a matter of months -- not years -- there 's an enormous opportunity to support the success of Maine employers and Maine workers for many years to come , " said Mitchell Robertson , VP of Code Fellows . Read more about the Maine startup ecosystem here on Tech . Co The post New coding school coming to Maine appeared first on Maine Startups Insider . This article is courtesy of Maine Startups Insider , created by Whit Richardson , a journalist who 's covered Maine 's business community for the past decade . Visit Maine Startups Insider to read more about Maine 's startup community and subscribe to the weekly newsletter .