Even when capital is readily available , fundraising is still not easy . The markets are cold , and according to Crain 's and Alley Watch , early stage investment activity in 2016 in NYC is down compared to 2015 . The lack of IPOs and liquidity in the later stage has a reverse domino effect on the whole investment ecosystem . The bitter election and uncertainty around world economics and the future are n't helping either . As a result , we are seeing a significant reluctance in seed investing . There are fewer angel investors , and those who do invest take much longer and invest much less . Similarly , micro VCs are more cautious and take a lot longer to make decisions . What used to be two or three meetings to a check , now is five or six meetings to a maybe . This market is not likely to improve quickly . 2017 may continue to be slow and difficult for seed fundraising . Here are some practical things founders can do to be successful in this new environment . Start by thinking about how you can do more with less . If you previously planned to raise $ 1 millon , can you revise your plan to accomplish the same with $ 700 K ? Most of the time , founders ask for arbitrary round numbers like $ 1 million or $ 2 million instead of the actual amount of capital needed to achieve specific milestones . Think about what can you cut . Work to re - budget . Hire less people . Spend a little bit less on marketing . Get rid of your office space . Try to get hosting credits from Amazon or Digital Ocean . Be creative and stingy . Spend time really polishing your financial model , and forecast , so that you can confidently tell investors why you are only raising $ 700 K and why you know you can achieve the necessary milestones with less capital . Very few things upset founders more than a low cap or pre - money valuation . Whenever founders look at a term sheet , the only important term they see is valuation . In reality , many other terms matter , and post - money valuation actually matters a lot more than pre - money valuation , because that s the true indicator of how much dilution the founders are going to have . It is important for founders to realize that in a slow market , investors want a deal . When there is plenty of capital to go around , founders ask for high valuations . When there is little capital to go around , investors push for low valuations . Investors want a deal . Instead of being stuck on the numbers , lower the valuation and get your round done . You thought you were going to raise capital on $ 5 million cap but investors want $ 3 million cap ? Fine , agree to the deal . Yes , this is a lot more dilution , but you 'd rather raise quickly on a lower valuation that not raise at all . More importantly , if you crush it , there will be an opportunity for you to make up the dilution in future financings . A year from now , when you may need to raise capital again , your numbers will be stronger and maybe the market will be better as well . At that time , you will be in a position to ask for better terms and you can compensate for the dilution you have to agree to now . Simply put , you can get diluted 25 percent now and 15 percent later , or 15 percent now and 25 percent later , and it is the same amount of dilution . Sure , ideally , founders want less dilution now and later , but this is not the real world , that 's not how markets work , and that 's not what investors want . Recognize the reality , give the investors a deal , and close your round faster . Also , raise less capital and your dilution will be smaller . When in doubt , add more to the top of the funnel . This is true for both sales and for raising capital . In a slow market , the shape of your fundraising funnel changes in two ways . First , it gets taller . It will take you more meetings and more time with every single investor . What used to take two to three meetings to a check , may now take five to six . Be prepared and ask what the steps are , how long the process will take , and what to expect . Secondly , a lot more people will say no in every stage , so it is important to triple the top of your investor funnel . Fundraising , like sales , is a numbers game . You need to meet a lot of investors to get funding . Most say no , because seed stage companies are super risky . Just be ready to get a lot of no 's , and keep finding new investors to talk to . While it is important to talk to a lot of investors , this does n't mean you need to talk to every investor out there . Quite the opposite . You can only get funding from a qualified investor - someone who is interested in your space , someone who has capital to invest , someone who hasn't backed your competitor . Research the investors to make sure they are qualified . Do not waste your time by trying to talk to every single investor out there . In a world enamored with venture capital , we rarely talk about profitability . Yet , profitability for a startup is the most liberating thing that can happen . When you become profitable , you no longer depend on raising external capital . Can you become profitable by closing a few more contracts , cutting expenses , and slowing down your growth ? If you can , then this is the time to seriously consider doing it . If you become profitable you will be able to control your destiny . A company that 's profitable is also more attractive to investors . It 's less risky and it 's clear that the management team will spend the money responsibly . Even if you are n't profitable now , make profitability your next milestone . Instead of telling investors you will need to raise more money in 12 months , build a plan that gets you to profitability . Early stage investors are reluctant to invest because the companies do n't have enough traction . Real traction is revenue and paying customers . Get obsessed with sales and getting customers , not just fundraising . Every single paying customer gets you closer to profitability , and to ultimate independence . The more customers you get , the more convinced you are about the business and the faster investor dollars will come . Become your own toughest critic , leave no stone unturned and ask all the questions investors will ask . Nothing excites investors more than actual paying customers and hockey stick growth in customers and revenue . Get to revenue , grow the revenue , and your chances of fundraising will go up . In a slower environment , the bar for everything is higher . Not only do investors expect a better deal , they will also expect an inspirational vision and a bigger story . Investors are naturally attracted to founders who have strong founder - market fit , see the future , and have the ability to make it happen . The reason investors are attracted to artful storytelling is because they know that great CEOs and founders have to inspire customers , employees , and new investors . Founders who have a clear vision are also very resilient - they know where they 're going , why they 're doing it , and what they are doing , and that gives them strength . Inspirational founders with massive vision are the founders who wo n't give up . Take your vision and weave it into an inspirational story and investors will be more likely to invest . Lastly , be ready to not raise capital at all . Strong founders need to be ready for every situation , and there is a real possibility that you wo n't be able to raise any capital or will raise a lot less than you set out to do . Do you feel like investors are n't biting , and you 've been fundraising for months ? When your fundraising is not going well , it is time to pause and re - think your strategy . It is probably time to switch to plan B and to bootstrap . The important thing is to have clear plan . What can you do with little capital ? How long can your team go without being paid ? Can you tap your friends and family to help a little bit ? Can you make progress on the product ? Can you sell more customers ? Can you execute on the business without the capital ? Having a very specific and concrete plan and having very specific and open conversations with your co - founders is really important . Come up with a plan , discuss it , get feedback and then go back and execute on it . This post originally appeared on Thoughts on Tech Startups and Venture Capital by Alex Iskold . This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .