Apple 's plans to get involved in augmented reality has got the tech world curious and excited about what it will entail . However , we have very little concrete to go on so far . By piecing together what we do know , like their pattern of acquisitions and statements , we can easily speculate wildly about what the future might hold . We all remember how the iPhone reshaped and , in some ways , created the market for mobile apps we know today . With that in mind , an Apple augmented reality device could change the field for developers and consumers alike . Virtual , augmented , and mixed reality are generally grouped together as " reality - based " ( or sometimes " reality - altering " ) technologies . The key underpinning of this grouping is the fact that they use virtual , digital elements to change how we perceive reality . For virtual reality , this means plunging the user into 360 degrees of complete alternative reality , one that does n't include any elements from the physical world .   The difference between augmented and mixed reality is a bit of a contested , terminological territory . The general conception of augmented reality refers to technology that augments , supports , or improves how people interact with the physical world . Until very recently , this technology has been limited in its scope and had lacked true " wow " factor . Microsoft , Apple 's great competitor , has developed and is close to releasing the final product of their HoloLens . In effect , it could be defined as an augmented reality device . In order to emphasize the degree to which the HoloLens is a definitive step forward in scale and kind from existing AR technologies , they decided to term it as a mixed reality device .   The HoloLens is a head - mounted device that allows the user to interact with virtual elements that realistically interact and integrate with physical components of the surroundings . This means that , unlike traditional AR mobile apps that operate as " overlays , " this mixed reality includes virtual objects that bounce off physical surfaces , roll down real slopes and are occluded by passing objects .    This is all accomplished with the use of spatial mapping functions that operate in real - time and provide the information to orient virtual models ( or holograms in Microsoft lingo ) . In a comparison with HoloLens , an Apple AR device would rely on similar technology . As of now , the Development Edition of the HoloLens has been released for businesses and developers . The exact release date for the retail version has not yet been released but the working efficiency of the Development Edition portents a not - too - distant release .   The spark that arose of all this speculation was Tim Cook 's comments regarding Apple 's interest in AR .   " I regard augmented reality is a big idea like the smartphone , " said Cook . " The smartphone is for everyone , we do n't have to think the iPhone is about a certain demographic , or country or vertical market : it 's for everyone . I think AR is that big , it 's huge . I get excited because of the things that could be done that could improve a lot of lives . " This has since been further substantiated by the inferences drawn from the recent hirings and acquisitions of personnel and startups involved in the technology . The major question that has emerged is " which direction will they plan to take with AR ? " On the one hand , there could be iPhone , mobile - based development and , on the other hand , there could a head - mounted / Google Glasses - inspired device .   People in the industry like me and you , are so excited about all the crazy things augmented reality is capable of , such as restructuring how manufacturers conceptualize products , retailers market products , and so on . But for everyday consumers , the introduction of these new technologies will likely be simpler and more familiar .   It 's very likely that when Apple looks at the question of implementing AR , they wo n't ask " What amazing new features can we add ? " but instead " What do users already do that we can make better ? " The extension of this question is to look at when and why users have their phones out in a way that is directly related to the environment around them .   With this in mind , navigation seems like a logical place for AR - integration . Instead of looking at a top - down map that can be disorienting for a person unfamiliar with landmarks or streets , AR could allow a user to simply see on the screen the world around them with directions overlaying it . In concrete terms , this could a highlighted line , or track , that the user would see on his screen .   Filters for social apps , most notably Snapchat , have gained massive usage among younger demographics . The idea of using this technology to make real - time , filtered videos is the kind of thing that at first seems trivial but in truth would be used by huge numbers of users . The Google Glasses were a well - documented bust . Some people say the technology just was n't advanced enough to support the idea , whereas others blamed how they looked . In all likelihood , these two major reasons worked in tandem to kill the groundbreaking technology . With the success of HoloLens yet to be determined , the figures at Apple must be reasoning out the cost - benefits of embarking on a similar project . Apple has already deployed devices like the Apple Watch that work in concert with an iPhone . It is very feasible that a standalone AR device would , in fact , be linked with an iPhone so as to provide power without forcing the AR device to be too large and clunky .   Are they looking to make the same leap made by Google and Microsoft in building a completely new type of device that , if successful , would be game - changer in the mold of the iPhone ? It seems to us that perhaps that is a long - term goal but we 're much likely to see iPhone oriented AR first .   The jury still remains out and leaning toward a damning indictment , when it comes to head - mounted devices . Virtual reality trends seem to show people are n't opposed to using them in dedicated , intentional settings . But the idea of people walking around with contraptions on their heads still seems far away . The most likely outcome seems to be a new , AR - oriented iPhone . For developers , that 'd be a dream come true . Reality - based technology is here to stay . It 's fun . It 's useful . And it 's just so cool when it works well . Read more about augmented reality here on Tech . Co