Entertainment , camera , moon - shot and military drones are all becomming more distinct as the drone industry gets commoditized . Prices are dropping even as impressive new features are added . It 's a difficult time for drone makers . UPDATED 1/13/2017 : SF District Attorney files false advertising suit against Lily Robotics . Details added below . UPDATED 1/17/2017 : CyPhy Works LVL 1 drone was successfully crowdfunded and then one year later refunded . Details added below . The commercial drones market consists of consumer products like toys , games and camera drones for photography and action selfies , and the professional market ( called the pro - sumer market ) which serves the construction , surveying , mapping , utilities , telecom , ag , public safety and insurance industries where the drone is matched with speciality software to provide package solutions unique to those industry groups . Many feel that a saturation point has been reached in the consumer marketplace and that after reaching that point it then becomes a race to the bottom in terms of price and profitability , hence the shift to the pro - sumer market by almost all drone makers . Parrot SA is a French wireless products manufacturer based in Paris , France . Parrot invented and manufactured the AR.Drone and initiated a drone division which now represents 1/3 of their business . Parrot just released its Q4 2016 report which showed a 15% drop in revenue . The company had revenues of EUR85 million but targeted EUR100 million . Revenue from drones was EUR60 million , with EUR11 million coming from commercial , and EUR49 million from consumer drones . As a result , Parrot announced plans to reduce its drone workforce by 35% , laying off around 290 people . Parrot plans to focus on a reduced number of consumer products , redeploy product offerings , realign resources and adjust its support teams . Conversely , Parrot will continue to invest in its commercial drone business which has been doing well and is steadily growing . 3D Robotics and their Solo quadcopter were media hits until their product stumbled and their ambitious inventories did n't move . Like Parrot , 3DR laid off hundreds last year , had to shut down facilities , and has since been scrambling to keep afloat by refocusing on commercial operations in the pro - sumer marketplace .   Lily , a Silicon Valley startup with a stylish camera drone and presentation , announced that although it had $ 34 million in pre - sales , it could n't get additional funds to meet production demands and was closing down . What remains of the company is focused on handling refunds . " After so much hard work , we are sad to see this adventure come to an end , " founders Balaresque and Bradlow wrote on the Lily website . " We are very sorry and disappointed that we will not be able to deliver your flying camera , and are incredibly grateful for your support as a pre - order customer . " In a late development which portends difficulty for other over - exuberant marketing types , the San Francisco district attorney 's office filed suit against Lily Robotics over claims that the drone maker engaged in false advertising and unfair business practices . Lily said it would begin shipping drones to customers who had placed orders by February 2016 , but failed to live up to that promise . The office alleged that Lily lured customers with a promotional video that was actually filmed by a " much more expensive , professional camera drone that required two people to operate . "   " It does not matter if a company is established or if it is a startup , " District Attorney George Gascon said in a statement announcing the lawsuit . " Everyone in the market must follow the rules . By protecting consumers , we protect confidence in our system of commerce . " In May , 2015 , CyPhy Works successfully crowdfunded $ 882,000 for their LVL 1 drone , a 6-bladed self - leveling device which was to sell at $ 495 and begin deliveries in February , 2016 . In April , 2016 they cancelled the project and refunded all the Kickstarter funding claiming that delays in a key processor chip would n't be available until mid-2017 consequently they did n't want to delay the project until then and would instead refund all Kickstarter funders and pre - orders .   Alphabet ( Google ) has closed down the Titan Project to fly high - altitude drones that would beam wireless Internet access back down to the earth . More than 50 project members were let go - some have moved to other Google X projects . Titan Aerospace was acquired by Google in 2014 and was reformed into the Titan Project which competed with another Google X project , Project Loon , which also has problems . Loon is temporarily mired in an IP infringement suit with Space Data . Although GoPro had a big presence at CES , their Karma drone was n't there and the sales people said that they hope it will be re - released in a few months . Karma was high - profile , long - anticipated , and late . The Karma was supposed to be the company 's hope to pull up diminishing revenues . Karma had mid - flight power failures and GoPro recalled all the devices shipped and offered refunds . GoPro cut its staff by about 200 people in November . Karma 's relaunch , if it happens , will need to compensate for product and price improvements offered by DJI that outperform and underprice the Karma in all but camera lenses . DJI is the elephant in the room . Their products have outperformed , outpriced and been faster to market than all their competitors . Their marketing has emphasized integration with pro - sumer software , GoPro cameras and mounts , and other accessories . They keep on inventing and they are headquartered in Shenzhen where all their suppliers reside , hence their ability to be quick to market . " What we realized is that it 's inherently much more difficult for a Silicon Valley - based , software - focused company to compete against a vertically integrated powerhouse manufacturing company in China , " said Colin Guinn , 3D Robotics ' former chief revenue officer . Founded in 2006 as a company that built flight controllers for remote control toy helicopters , DJI unveiled the Phantom in 2012 , an off - the - shelf drone that became the standard for consumer drones . DJI seems to have a rhythm to their products : launch , then 6 - 10 months later lower prices , then launch a newer upgraded product at a price point halfway between the previous product and the discounted price , then repeat the process .   Even DJI has recently begun to feel the heat from fellow Chinese drone makers Xiaomi and Yuneec both of which undercut DJI with similar products at lower prices . Hence DJI 's stressing their collaboration with and integration of software and accessory vendors focusing on the pro - sumer marketplace . In the defense sector the Predator , Reaper , and Global Hawk drones that have done their work in two wars have become popularized by movies that exposed their expense , their vulnerabilities , and their Las Vegas - based human pilots and sensor operators controlling them remotely . Now DARPA and the DoD are introducing new robot war machines . Their latest is drone swarms , where several small flying robots work together to do jobs previously done by the larger craft . An anti - air missile can shoot down an $ 18 million Reaper , but firing that same anti - air missile at a swarm of drones would n't work . With every Predator , there 's a joystick and flight controls for a human pilot who maneuvers it . That format changes entirely with a group of autonomous swarming drones . " They are a collective organism , sharing one distributed brain for decision - making and adapting to each other like swarms in nature , " according to Strategic Capabilities Office Director William Roper . Unlike the Predator , where the machine responds to the pilot 's joystick , this swarm receives objectives from a human controller , and then directs itself to that location . Presumably , the swarm could still fly to a preset list of objectives even if it loses contact with a human controller , giving it the freedom to operate in the face of jamming as well as anti - air weapons . [ Recently an Australian startup , DroneShield Detection , has developed a set of sensors and a StarWars - looking gun that can detect and shoot a swarm out of the sky . ] Drones to protect and defend are a necessary part of government 's province and a steady source of research , invention , and income for the military industrial complex . In the next four years , at least in the U.S. , the defense / security segment of the drone industry is expecting significant growth . < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >