Qumulo CEO Bill Richter . ( Madrona Venture Group Photo )   Qumulo has spent the past five years building out its cloud - based platform that helps companies store and manage their data usage . Now the company is ready to attract enterprise customers from around the world and become a globally - recognized brand . The Seattle startup today announced a $ 30 million investment round led by new investor Northern Light Venture Capital , with participation from previous investors like Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers , Madrona Venture Group , Top Tier Capital Partners , and Tyche Partners . This follows a separate $ 32.5 million investment in June of last year . Total funding in the 5-year - old company is now $ 130 million . Qumulo helps clients in a variety of industries like film production , oil and gas , life sciences , and more not only store data , but also monitor it with real - time analytics . Qumulo CEO Bill Richter , who joined the company this past November , said the fresh investment is " all about fueling growth . " " This round is all about taking a best of breed product that 's built for the modern world , marrying it up with a world class leadership organization , and really going out and prosecuting a large , growing , and uncontested market , " Richter told GeekWire . Richter took over for Qumulo co - founder Peter Godman , who is now CTO . The two colleagues previously worked together as executives at Isilon Systems -- as did Qumulo 's two other co - founders Neal Fachan and Aaron Passey -- which sold to EMC for $ 2.25 billion in 2010 , marking one of the biggest acquisitions in Seattle tech history . Richter , also a venture partner at Madrona Venture Group -- one of Seattle 's top venture capital firms and one of Qumulo 's earliest backers -- said he 's more bullish about Qumulo compared to what he experienced at Isilon . " Our opportunity is so much bigger than Isilon because the rate of data creation in the world is only accelerating , " he said . " The problem is even more pronounced ; the market is so much larger ; and the choices are much fewer for customers . " The " problem " Richter referenced is all about how to manage and monitor a company 's unstructured data usage . Qumulo helps companies understand where the consumption of resources is coming from and learn why so much data exists in the first place . Qumulo 's Core product helps answers questions like , " What was my data like six months ago ? " or , " What data do I need to back up ? " or , " What is driving my data growth ? " Qumulo Core can run on commodity hardware , dedicated appliances , or in virtual machines . " Every business out there is becoming a digital business , " Richter noted . " Data is becoming the most important asset for any organization . " Qumulo has more than 100 customers including companies like Crafty Apes , which used Qumulo to help with the 2D compositing for the opening scene in La La Land , and Sinclair Oil , which uses the technology for its new digital repository . Richter said Qumulo is in a $ 10 billion market , with few competitors given the complexity of the problem and potential solutions . He said three qualities -- software - defined ( can run both on - premises and in the public cloud ) ; built for modern scale ; data analytics -- help separate Qumulo from other similar products . " Customers today have really lousy choices , " he explained . " They can buy legacy solutions built in the 1990s or early 2000s from companies like Dell , Hitachi , or Net App , but those systems just fall over under today 's definition of scale . They were never built to be able to store and manage information like the type of data we have today . " Richter said some companies can rewrite their applications and try to leverage public cloud solutions like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure -- Qumulo views them as " strategic partners " -- but that most do n't have the time , money , or expertise to do so . Qumulo employs 150 people and recently made a few key hires . In November it brought on tech industry vet Eric Scollard as its vice president of worldwide sales , and in February it hired Amazon and Chef veteran Jay Wampold as its vice president of marketing . " There 's been a lot of momentum around the leadership team and bringing in a new level of horsepower to really grow the business , " Richter noted . As for a potential public offering , Richter said Qumulo " certainly has the opportunity " and will raise additional capital at some point in the future . " But we 're not really focused on things like an IPO , " he said . " We are focused on growing a long - term , highly successful and independent company . This financing round gives us a lot of flexibility and fuel to grow . " Feng Deng , founding managing director of China - focused Northern Light Venture Capital , described Qumulo as a " high - growth company at the crossroads of innovation and disruption . " " We are seeing a massive explosion in digital file data worldwide , " Deng said in a statement . " Qumulo addresses the challenge of unstructured data growth and management that incumbents have found impossible to solve . Northern Light is committed to helping entrepreneurs build world class companies through our expertise and resources and Qumulo fits that investment profile as a high - growth company at the crossroads of innovation and disruption . "