The ' dead zone ' ... This is the purgatory where startups are either cleansed of their inability to serve the needs of their respective markets or they , like most startups , die a painful death . This is a familiar and very dangerous place to be in because it could literally make or break your venture . Based purely on my limited experience in the startup realm , the dead zone can be defined as any prolonged period of time where your early - stage startup makes money but experiences little to no growth . What makes this zone exceptionally dangerous for startups is that you get fooled into believing that your startup is doing okay -- it is , after all making money . The problem is by ignoring the growth problem you are actively choosing to focus on the wrong goal . A startup by definition is a temporary business entity carrying out a series of business experiments based on a set of assumptions with the objective of growing into a big business . If you are not growing for a prolonged period of time , your startup is in crisis as it can not , without user growth , become a big business . There are a number of reasons a startup may find itself in the dead - zone . Firstly , it is possible that you misread trends in your market . Here is a prime example ... You launch an ' anything goes freelance marketplace ' , absolutely ignoring ; i. ) the fact that the freelance space is oversaturated with businesses doing the exact same thing , ii . ) South African companies have a general distrust for freelancers - they would at most , be willing to work with freelancers with a proven track record on Upwork or someone they have worked with in the past and iii . ) that talented developers do not want to be given silly tasks by clients who are clearly trying to exploit them by offering below market rates ( and refusing to pay once the project is complete ) . The startup in this example may , if it is lucky , experience some growth . However , unless it changes its approach by building a solution that factors in the three problems stated in previous sentence , the startup is unlikely to experience any further growth simply because the founders have misread market trends . In order to prevent the aforementioned situation from happening you need to stay abreast with your market happenings and its drivers . Ask industry related questions on Hacker News or to industry experts on Quora if you must , have constant discussions about your market in order to keep in touch with the trends that are continuously defining your market space . This may not get your startup out of the dead zone but it will give you greater insight on your market . There are numerous other reasons you may find your startup stuck in the dead zone including , but not limited to ; not solving a pertinent problem and not changing your product , or marketing approach to accommodate changing user needs . Finding the reason requires some introspection from your part . You understand your startup and your metrics well enough to figure out why it is not growing . I will not pretend to be an expert in entrepreneurship as I have a clear understanding of the limitations of my knowledge , but I will propose a few solutions that I believe are worth trying . Since a startup is by definition a series of experiments , you can start off by re - evaluating the assumptions your experiments are based on . If you were for example to build a Slackbot that charges companies to send a summary of their analytics to a Slack channel of their choosing , you may , if you are not growing for a prolonged period , want to reconsider the assumption that people would want to subscribe to the services offered by your Slackbot . Maybe you ought to shift from a subscription model to once - off payments and upsell your clients . Alternatively , the problem could lie in the fact that the solution offered by your startup has not been communicated clearly enough to attract more users . Save for a few early adopters , people are generally too conservative to use a service that does n't have a very clear purpose . This is not a bad space to be in as it gives you quite a lot of leeway to experiment and/or pivot in order to figure out what problem you should be trying to solve , how to communicate your solution clearer and which market you need to target . Do not remain stagnant for too long , try different things and try them as quickly as possible . Trade perfection for speed , but do not do things haphazardly , there has to be a balance . These are but a few suggestions that may or may not work for your startup . The fact , however , remains the same , if your startup is in the dead zone you have to do something to act as quickly as you can to get yourself out of that position . It may happen that your startup is simply a small business that can not scale into a big business by virtue of the market you are targeting , if that is the case then this article probably does not apply to you . Feature image : U.S. Department of Agriculture via Flickr .