Roughly 2.25 billion cups of coffee are consumed each day around the world . The United States imports $ 4 billion in coffee each year from mostly developing nations , and Americans consume about 400 million cups of coffee per day . There are approximately 24,000 independent coffee shops strewn across the US , and specialty coffee sales are increasing at a rate of about 20 percent a year to nab an 8 percent share of the domestic market - approximately $ 1.5 billion per year . Your morning coffee is a big deal , obviously . But what is on the horizon ? Are there any big breakthroughs ? Or are we relegated to sipping the same old " black with two creams and a sugar " drip coffee we 've been enjoying for decades ? Thanks to a select group of startups in the coffee industry , we might be on the verge of a coffee revolution . Let 's look at some of the big players poised to make an impact on your morning coffee below : There has always been a certain disconnect between coffee growers and the end consumer . In fact , there are usually up to twelve distinct entities involved in the production of coffee ( grower , cooperatives , shippers , importers , certifiers , roasters , etc . ) that take their share of the pie while the consumer waits patiently for a simple roasted coffee bean . And the farmers and growers are often paid very little for their product - even as designer coffee brands command a premium on the open market . Enter VEGA Coffee , a subscription - based service that allows coffee drinkers to receive carefully curated , single - origin coffee that is roasted by the grower and shipped directly to the consumer . This ensures a more equitable experience for the growers and a rich taste and high - quality product for coffee drinkers .   About 30 percent of all coffee consumed in the U.S. each day is brewed using a " K - cup " or single - serving coffee maker , but VitaCup grasped the opportunity to dramatically improve the health benefits of a daily cup of coffee by infusing a variety of vitamins into their proprietary blend . Vitamins like B1 , B6 , and D3 are added to their K - cup - compatible pods and impart no taste to the blend . Their pods are eco - friendly , biodegradable , BPA - free , and they use fair - trade coffee in their revolutionary K - cups . Fully compatible with standard Keurig - style brewing machines and designed to give a vitality - enhancing boost to any morning coffee drinker 's day , VitaCup is poised to shake up the market in a big way . One startup taking the " coffee - on - the - go " phenomenon to new heights is UNA . They claim that their system is the " most intelligent way to brew coffee and tea ANYWHERE and ANYTIME . " While there is no way to quantify their level of intelligence relative to other instant coffee machines on the market , these guys are bound to be classified as a disruptor in the field . Their coffee brewing system looks like a traditional travel tumbler , but is really a self - contained brewing unit - battery - powered and it can even be controlled via smartphone . It heats water while on the go , brews coffee seamlessly , and is easy to use and clean . Imagine life before Uber . If you needed to get somewhere and you did n't own a car or a friend was n't close at hand , what were you going to do ? Call a cab and wait an hour for a car to come pick you up ? The team at Clowder is attempting to be the Uber of Coffee , and their business model is pretty simple . Clowder will deliver a hot or cold morning coffee to your desk , no tips or fees required , in just 15 minutes - and all starting at just $ 3.25 per drink . Long lines in coffee shops are the bane of busy commuters , and think of the lost productivity one endures while waiting in the traditional " cattle - call " line at a busy coffee shop . Instead , startup Clowder is creating devoted fans who simply have better things to do than wait in line . Right now , they operate in NYC only , but have plans to expand . Read more about getting a better night 's sleep here on Tech . Co