Shelf Engine co - founders Bede Jordan and Stefan Kalb . Photo via Shelf Engine .   As his fresh salad and sandwich business started taking off a few years ago , Stefan Kalb realized he had a problem . Kalb , co - founder of Seattle - based Molly 's , learned how difficult it was to predict customer order patterns . At the time , Molly 's had 30 different menu items and delivered orders to more than 200 different customers each week . The root of the problem was all about how Molly 's made bulk orders for perishable foods -- they were often not perfect . When orders should have been increased , they were decreased ; when orders should have been decreased , they were increased . Sometimes , when an order needed to be changed , nothing was adjusted . In response , Kalb channeled his entrepreneurial energy and built software that helped Molly 's purchase the right amount of bulk food to fulfill customer orders . The financial impact was so substantial that Kalb has turned that idea into a entirely new company . The result is Shelf Engine , a new 3-person Seattle startup that just raised a $ 800,000 seed round to help perishable food distributors and grocery stores fine - tune their item order patterns to both save money and reduce waste . The investment was led by Initialized Capital ( Reddit co - founder Alexis Ohanian is a general partner ) , with participation from Founder 's Co - op , Liquid 2 Ventures ( Joe Montana is a general partner ) , and other angels . " As seed investors , we 're always excited to learn about new problems that have potentially valuable software solutions -- food waste is one of them , " Ohanian wrote on ProductHunt today . " In addition , it 's also a social problem and at a time when there are still people who go hungry , Shelf Engine is a means to reduce waste and thus cost . The food industry hasn't had the ability to solve this with software and this app helps retailers and distributors reduce their waste . "    In the company 's case study , it explains how many managers often make orders based on their current waste numbers -- a flawed method , because " that decision is n't based on a cumulation of waste and deliveries . " This creates a " whiplash effect " where orders are fluctuating from week to week and products are either selling out or have a high level of waste . ShelfEngine is one of the first startups to utilize artificial intelligence for the perishable food industry , Kalb explained . There are existing solutions like GPS tracking and inventory management , but not so much in terms of data - crunching software that can predict what to order . Shelf Engine uses an order prediction engine and probability models that analyze historical order and sales data , gross margins , and shelf life information -- not just how much food is wasted . The more a customer uses the system , the more accurate its recommendations become . " To make a real dent in your bottom line , your managers need to know exactly what to order , " Kalb said . " Shelf Engine uses several concurrent models that look at historical sales and correlations to generate a profit - maximizing order . We 're one of the first on the scene to be doing this . " Kalb , who was born in France and graduated from Western Washington with degrees in mathematics and economics , co - founded Shelf Engine with Bede Jordan , a Microsoft veteran who was most recently the principal software engineering lead for the company 's HoloLens team . Kalb no longer works at Molly 's , but still owns the food maker .