Everyone remembers the popularity of the Razor scooter . Every kid between the age of 4 and 40 was riding down the street with the confidence of an X - Games athlete . Tragically , everyone began ridiculing people that used this means of transportation for anything more than casual fun . Fortunately , one company is taking personal transportation seriously with a hi - tech scooter that would make George Jetson take notice . Immotor is the scooter of the future . For starters , getting around has never been easier than on this device . In addition to being completely electric , this scooter has more features than you can handle , from a Bluetooth speaker and GPS technology to accident awareness alerts and blinking brake lights . You can ride it for personal transportation , you can set it to " Power Mode " for simple hauling , and you can fold it for simple portability . This thing has it all ! _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ " We recognize the demand for safe and innovative battery - powered transport systems , " said Daniel Huang , CEO of Immotor . " For some time now , most of the new electric transports are being built using heavy , old batteries - and primarily using existing product designs . With Immotor GO we wanted to introduce something new , especially considering that 38% of all trips are in a personal vehicle , with a single occupant . Designed from the ground up and with zero emissions , it makes travel efficient , cheap , environmentally friendly , fun and above all - smart . " Yes , this scooter can take you anywhere . But it can also make sure you are prepared for anything their patented new battery system . With this smart battery , you can not only power your Immotor , but you can also charge other devices , like smartphones , tablets , and laptops . Dubbed the Super Battery , it has it 's own operating system that guarantees you 'll be safe no matter where you ride . According to their Indiegogo campaign , which raised just over $ 170,000 , these scooters will likely ship in late March of 2017 . They are available for preorder and will cost $ 1,099 .   Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded .