We 're now exiting a long era of skill specialization , when workers could flow through entire careers in the same field , if not the same job . Now , machines are better than us at performing specialized and repetitive tasks . But , while machine intelligence may replace workers in many jobs , some experts -- like Miguel Nicolelis , the co - founder of Duke University 's Center for Neuroengineering -- say that no engineering can ever replicate the capacity of a human brain . Consciousness does not work in an algorithmic , digital way . By tapping our innate ingenuity and adaptability , we can guide intelligent machines and create new work . It 's on us to learn how to learn anything . Individuals and companies must get better at transferring knowledge from one field and applying it in another . It 's less important to specialize than to recognize equivalents across disciplines . Are you a coal miner who excels at working in teams , handling complicated engineering technology and focusing on one thing at a time ? If so , the founders of Bit Source believe that you could also be a great coder .   In another example , the Tesla Gigafactory needed tilt - rotor helicopter mechanics to work on construction . Positing that military veterans with that skill might not be aware of how it could transfer , Tesla used targeted ads on RallyPoint , a networking site for the military and veteran community , and sussed out likely candidates . Take inventory of what you know and what skills you have , and then start imagining how they could apply or transfer in different contexts . The internet is a " choose - your - own - adventure " of learning options , ranging from Wikipedia , instructional videos on YouTube and online courses from Coursera , Udemy and EdX. The Renaissance revitalized humans ' interest in self - directed learning , especially across diverse knowledge sets and skills . Just think of Leonardo Da Vinci 's work in art and science . We 're in an analogous time today . Traditional education denotes expertise with letters after your name , but businesses engaged in rapid innovation are recognizing the value that self - taught people , or autodidacts , bring to the table . Becoming a casual expert is more than simply geeking out and taking a few online courses . Practice is key to how human brains retain and improve knowledge . As learning expert Eduardo Briceno described in his TED Talk " How to get better at the things you care about , " people tend to master something conceptually , and then go straight to execution without being good at it . Although the temptation to wing it -- to " make it up as you go " -- is strong in our fast - paced world , you must intentionally practice learning to move knowledge and skills into long - term memory . There are critical differences between an enthusiastic amateur and high - functioning autodidact . What does intentional practice look like ? Essentially , it looks " lean " ( experiment , measure , iterate ) . The methodology for entrepreneurs has proven applicable to learning across fields like healthcare and higher education -- industries where training and improving knowledge is a daily process . Some of the most innovative companies study an issue from every conceivable angle to form , test and solidify their knowledge of an issue . Beyond learning as students , they can play the part of teachers and their own dissertation committee . When repetitive practice gets boring ( because it does ) , think like a " freak " or apply game tactics to keep up enthusiasm and curiosity . Remember , learning happens when we overcome challenges . In his TED Talk , organizational psychologist Adam Grant talks about how fear and anxiety in the right amounts can spur creativity . Discover what works for you and discard what does n't . Do it mindfully and skip analysis paralysis . Much is being said about the importance of emotional intelligence in the age of AI . Social behavior requires neural capabilities that machine algorithms can not replicate . Alan Turing never designed a test for creating inside jokes or analogies to explain the quasi - religious feelings associated with seeing a provocative piece of art . Remember , learning by cataloging is just the beginning ; reliably applying knowledge in any context is the goal . Deepening emotional intelligence will help you abstract knowledge by analogy and apply it reliably in new situations , even ones that appear to be unrelated or unknown . Embrace social networking and take time to become conversant in the communication styles and points of view of other professionals and areas of expertise .    Technology will continue changing how people acquire knowledge , but the fundamentals of human learning have not changed since " Renaissance man / woman " became a metaphor for polymath . Humans will continue to be makers and pathfinders in entirely new , AI - supported contexts . Jobs will certainly change over the next 10 to 20 years in the face of AI . The people who thrive will have interdisciplinary skills and an eclectic outlook . You do n't have to be an expert in everything ; just remember how to learn anything . Greg Amrofell is co - founder of Intentional Futures , where he launched bgC3 's Big History Project , built ties between philanthropy and tech giants , analyzed trends in edtech , advised startups and standards bodies and envisioned the fut ...