One of the worst kept secrets in Australian business is out : Amazon is heading down under . After months of speculation and local retailers working themselves up into a sweat in expectation of the news , Amazon confirmed it overnight with a brief statement . " Amazon Web Services launched an Australian region in 2012 , we launched a Kindle Store on Amazon.com.au in 2013 , and we now have almost 1,000 employees in the country , " it read . " The next step is to bring a retail offering to Australia , and we are making those plans now . We are excited to bring thousands of new jobs to Australia , millions of dollars in additional investment , and to empower small Australian businesses through Amazon Marketplace . " The company expressed optimism that , by focusing on the things it believes customers value most - " low prices , vast selection , and fast delivery " - it will over time earn the business of Australian customers . No details have been revealed around the timing of the launch , though the company is actively looking for warehouse space and searching for a country manager , but of course , it 's already earning solid business from Australian customers . Nielsen research released in February found that Amazon 's US site converts 49 percent of Australian visitors into sales , coming in fourth behind only eBay with 78 percent , The Book Depository at 74 percent , and The Iconic with 53 percent converting . Seventy - five percent of respondents surveyed by Nielsen aged 18 or above also stated they are interested in Amazon Australia , with 56 percent saying they are likely to purchase from its Australian site and 45 percent saying they would pay to become an Amazon Prime member . The products consumers would be most likely to buy from an Australian Amazon site are electronics , books , clothes , shoes , and music , with fresh vegetables and meat towards the bottom of the list .   Industry analysts predict the effects on local retailers will be significant .   Credit Suisse predicted last month that retailers such as Myer , Harvey Norman , and JB Hi - Fi will face a " broad - reaching " impact , with the effects on their business models and pricing to be felt within five years of Amazon 's arrival . As The Australian reported , a scenario analysis from Credit Suisse found that if Amazon were to enter the domestic market this year , Myer could lose up to 55 percent of its potential earnings before interest and tax by 2022 compared to a situation where Amazon does n't enter . Harvey Norman 's shares took a hit of 8 percent upon the release of the report .   However , for some local businesses , Amazon 's arrival represents an exciting opportunity .   Ivan Lim , cofounder of online furniture retailer Brosa , believes Amazon will help grow online retailing 's slice of the overall shopping pie .   " We forget that while online retailing is growing rapidly it is still a small percentage of overall retail spend so to have one of the best online retailers entering Australia will really grow acceptance of shopping online . We 're excited because the idea of shopping for furniture online becomes a lot more intuitive when more Australians are doing more of their shop digitally , " he said . Amazon 's launch is also a call to arms to local retailers to ensure they are serving customers as best they can .   " I think businesses like Brosa that continue to sell their own unique products and brand plus offer a compelling customer experience - great last mile delivery , deep product knowledge , immersive selling experiences - beyond just selling a commoditized product will continue to thrive . That 's where retailers can thrive , " he said . Rob Hango - Zada , cofounder of logistics startup Shippit , agreed that customer experience is key and said Australian retailers understand this , however there are still issues .    " I think that there is a distinct gap in services offered to SMBs in the Australian market , which puts them at a competitive disadvantage . Higher delivery costs , sourcing , and storage costs also means that the cost base of a small , local player is going to be astronomical compared to Amazon and this is where there is significant opportunity to improve . " Amazon 's Australian launch will be the second of an international online retail giant this year , with Alibaba opening its Australian and New Zealand headquarters in Melbourne in February . Maggie Zhou , heading up the operation , said a physical headquarters for the business locally will help ensure Australian businesses have the necessary support and information they need to grow into China . Jack Ma , Alibaba 's founder and executive chairman , added that the local team will help Australian and New Zealand businesses " share their world - famous products with billions of customers around the world " . " Whether a large company with existing links to China or a mum - and - dad run exporter operating out of a garage , Alibaba Group is here to make it easy to do business anywhere , " he said .