Raising capital is one of the toughest feats for any startups . Trying to network , meet the right people , gain warm introductions , get your pitch deck together , and present it around town takes a ton of energy and time . One company is making it easy for startups heading to SXSW to bypass some of that headache and win $ 50,000 in seed money - but you got ta play a game to get it . London - based Snatch , the augmented reality and geo - location virtual treasure hunt gaming platform with real - life environments and obstacles that allow players to find cash prizes and products from big brands is launching at SXSW . As part of the US launch , one of the biggest prizes they 're offering is specifically for startups headed to the festival , allowing them to " game their way " to their first seed round of capital . The game works like this : players , also known as Snatchers , find parcels around their community that contain real prizes . However , the player will need to defend their parcel through virtual weapons , such as an invisibility cloak or safe house , found within the game . In - app purchases for additional weapons will be available through the game to defend one 's parcel . ( We do n't know at this time exactly how Snatch will work for the investment parcel versus the regular prizes , we will keep you updated as more information becomes available about the contest rules and stipulations as we approach SXSW ) Snatch was founded by Joe Martin , and incubated at the London - based E - Man Labs Startup Studio . Snatch already hit number one on the Apple store and has over 100,000 UK users accessing millions of dollars in prizes each month . The company is also backed by Unilever Ventures for an undisclosed amount and attracted top brands such as Amazon , Pizza Hut , and more , to join in the prizes . Velocity Capital Advisors , a UK - based , consumer technology VC fund founded by BMB Founder Bil Bungay , who are also co - investors in Snatch , are flipping the bill for the $ 50,000 investment parcel . Since the game will launch at SXSW , startups need to preregister on their website here . The app will be ready to download before SXSW , then once the event kicks off , it will be live with parcels containing prizes from big brands around the festival as well as one with the $ 50,000 investment**. Someone just needs to find it . Tech . Co will have more details as the contest rules unfolds and Snatch is live at SXSW Join Tech . Co at our SXSW events , RSVP HERE .