Today , plenty of startups operate in a remote office to reduce their overhead expenses and lessen the time it takes to get things going . Most , if not all , of them use online collaboration platforms to overcome the distance barrier - allowing employees to work together as if they 're located in the same building . Others resort to the traditional ways of communicating through emails and instant messaging applications like Skype . Regardless of their methods , nothing beats having a physical office space when it comes to bringing teams closer together . It will also allow you to attract foot traffic , ensure the productivity of employees , and boost the legitimacy of your business . Setting up an office for the very first time is also a significant milestone that indicates growth . Read a quick guide to starting a business culture If you think your business is ready for the next step , below are 5 tools you can use to find your first workplace : Craiglist is a popular site to check for prospective office or commercial spaces and everything else under the sun , just be careful of fake listings and do your research on the property first .   Read about building a company culture at your office here For US - based self - employed professionals and freelancers , you can start with Offices to find your first executive office . The platform also searches temporary workspaces for small companies who are open to office sharing . All of the properties are suited for short - term arrangements , which is useful if you 're trying to avoid expensive monthly fees . Offices.net also allows you to request for " Instant Quotes " by filling in details about your company such as location , contact information , and team size . This is useful if you 'd rather have someone else hunt for a suitable property for your startup .   LoopNet is a good alternative to Craigslist if you 're looking for an office space for lease or sale . It includes roughly 800,000 properties across the United States - more than enough options to let you find the exact workspace that matches your company 's needs . Just like Craigslist , LoopNet lets you narrow down your search by location as well as specify the type of property you prefer , including but not limited to senior housing , retail stores , and office spaces . Alternatively , you can connect with a certified broker to help you find the best deal for your money .   Lastly , ShareDesk is one of the simplest and most straightforward tools you can use for finding on - demand workspaces - wherever you are in the world . It allows you to search for shared office spaces or business centers for short - term arrangements . Everything else , from payments to customer support , can be done through the website as well . One of the biggest advantages of ShareDesk is that it covers a total of 440 cities in different countries across the globe . It is , however , not the most cost - effective platform if you need a workplace for the long - term . UK - based startups can depend on LondonOfficeSpace.com - a listing site specifically for startups and businesses across the pond . Once you find a property that piques your interest , you can book a viewing and request for the price directly from the website . Another advantage of the platform is the amount of details included in each property page . Other than the property 's key features , actual images , and contact information , its location is also marked in the Google Maps widget right below .   What other platforms would you recommend to find an office space for your startup ? Comment below or on our Facebook page . Read more about creating an office space at Tech . Co