Leading up to the last U.S. election cycle , a great deal of focus was placed on wage inequality and disparities in venture capital raised by women . It is now well established that not only do women typically make less money . However , add in any other factor , and dollar - for - dollar there are decreases in wages earned or capital raised . This comes at a time when more women are launching startups than ever before , with a 68 percent increase between 1997 and 2014 . By comparison , women are launching startups at two times the growth rate of men . A new study produced by Hired sheds light on these wage inequalities , while Women Who Tech compared dollars raised by women to that of their male counterparts . Between both studies , some cause and effect can be drawn between the two . As constraints are made , women are creating opportunities for themselves in building new businesses , only to be challenged again with an underfunded environment . According to Women Who Tech , only seven percent of outside funding currently go to women - led startups . For some contrast , the same report shows that for every six investments made towards an all - male startup , one is provided for an all - woman led startup . As seen in the infographic , it can also been noted that for the women - led startups who receive funding , there is a 35 percent higher return on investment and generate 12 percent higher revenue . On wage gaps , Hired found that 63 percent of the time women received lower salary offers than men for the same job at the same company . Though negative , Hired also reported that this is an improvement when compared to last year 's report . Much of the wage disparities start in the negotiation and interview stages , with a staggering 69 percent that asked for less money than men . By comparison , only six percent ask for the same amount as men , and 25 percent asked for more ( typically younger women ) .   Disparities only stretch further when you add in other factors such as an LGBTQ status . According to Hired , white men are offered the highest salaries and black women are offered the lowest salaries . Non - LGBTQ men out earn all other categories , followed by LGBTQ men , non - LGBTQ women , and LGBTQ women . Read how women - founders are balancing work and life   Read inspiring stories by women - led businesses at Tech . Co