[ Editor 's note : Spoilers for The Walking dead throughout . ] It 's bleak and we both know it -- the kind of soul - crushing downer that goes way beyond " horror " and into something more existential and emotionally haunting .    The twists are exciting , sure , but it 's not so much the unexpected that scares us ; it 's the stuff we saw coming ... or ( in retrospect ) the stuff we should have seen coming . There 's happiness from time to time -- bright triumphs of human spirit and social ingenuity -- but if we 're honest , those moments , just like everything else , are short lived .   According to the Startup Genome Report , the survival rate for startups is a mere 10% . Put more starkly : 90% of all startups die within their first three years . ( Oh , did you think we were talking about something else ? )   As Robin Chase , co - founder of Zipcar and Veniam told Foundr Magazine : " Startups are really hard . Every successful one had terrible hurdles and setbacks that they had to overcome . These challenges are the norm and not unique to you and your startup . "   It 's bloody , sweaty , tear - filled work ... but once you 're hooked , good luck turning away .   The question is : What do startups have to do with a pop - culture phenomenon like The Walking Dead ?   Turns out , everything .   In fact , there are at least four lessons everybody 's favorite post - apocalyptic horror - scape can teach you about surviving as a startup . Here they are in all their unsettling glory .   Image :   AMC Rick Grimes ' nightmare -- like most zombieland protagonists -- begins with a wake up . He 's alone , disoriented , and ( as usual ) oily . The world has changed , and not for the good .   The lesson here is obvious , but many startup founders still ignore it . Whether your niche is B2C , B2B , SaaS , or old - fashioned ecommerce does n't really matter -- the world changes fast . Everyday a new technological evolution emerges : Drones , self - driving cars , holograms , dynamic online personalization , VR , AR , AI , and a host of other acronyms . And that does n't even factor in trends in the wider culture .   Daniel Marlin from Entrepreneur and the Huffington Post puts it like this : " The same rings true for the changing landscape of start - ups . Consumers evolve , corporate hierarchies adjust and sometimes cease to exist altogether in favour of a more dynamic structure . "   The best way to stay awake is to combine two approaches . First , take advantage of social - listening and online alert tools to systematize paying attention , both to your industry and pop - culture trends . Barring this automated approach , new developments will inevitably fall through the cracks .   Second , regardless of your niche , service , or product , do whatever you can to move towards an " agile " workflow . First used in car manufacturing and then applied to technological development , agile prioritizes iterative testing , runs on tight feedback loops that include real users , and puts decision making in the hands of the people who are closest to the problem being solved .   In truth , these two steps are the only way to ensure you do n't wake up to a future that 's passed you by or one that 's stalking your death .    Image :   AMC In a show full of heart - wrenching scenes , few stand out like the death of Lori Grimes . Matricide is a bold move for any plot , but immediately after giving birth ... well , brutal does n't really do it justice .   And yet , however brutal it may have been , one of the keys to surviving The Walking Dead is to do whatever 's necessary , when it 's necessary , sometimes to even those we hold most dear . The same is true for startups .   Part of what fuels startups is the belief in an idea . Such belief is crucial when it comes to enduring the inevitable ups and downs that confront all founders . The trouble is that belief -- especially dogmatic , hard - headed , " despite what everyone says I know it 's brilliant " -- has a darkside you might not expect : Love .    When we come to love our ideas themselves , not the solutions they aim to offer , we become blind . We lost sight of what really matters : not products , not promotions , not methods ... outcomes . In his 1913 - 1914 Cambridge lectures , " On the Art of Writing , " Arthur Quiller - Couch was the first to coin the phrase " murder your darlings , " and Stephen King took it one step further , " Kill your darlings , kill your darlings , even when it breaks your egocentric little scribbler 's heart , kill your darlings . "   As hard as it is to watch on the small screen , following that advice is even more difficult in the real world . Brittany Berger -- head of content and PR at Mention -- offers this advice as an antidote : " You need to remember that you do not matter . Separating myself from my work has been key in helping me make decisions based on business instead of emotion . "   Case in point , one of Brittany 's darlings was Mention 's weekly Twitter chat . As a social media startup , that makes perfect sense . The only problem was , it did n't deliver any bottomline results . Popularity can fuel our egos -- and certainly has a role to play in marketing and PR -- but if it does n't deliver , it 's time to break out the machete .   37Signals ' founder Jason Fried nails this fundamental principle : " Start getting into the habit of saying no -- even to many of your best ideas . Use the power of no to get your priorities straight . You rarely regret saying no . But you often wind up regretting saying yes . "   In other words , be ruthless with the ideas you love . The more you love them , the more dangerous they can become .    Image :   AMC As disturbing as Carl Grimes 's matricide was , Season 7 's premiere -- " The Day Will Come When You Wo n't Be " -- took it to a whole new level . After the long - awaited arrival of Negan , Abraham 's folksie , profanity - laced wisdom was the first to fall victim to " Lucielle . "   Bad situation ? Yes . But does it gets worse ? Indeed .   In a fit of justified outrage , everybody 's favorite unfortunate son , Daryl Dixon , rises up . He ca n't help himself , and we get it . Unfortunately all the righteous indignation in the world wo n't help when you 're outnumbered and outgunned . Driven back to the gravel , we wait for the hammer -- or , more accurately , the bat -- to drop .   However , in lieu of Daryl , Glenn is the second to go ( complete with some serious eye - bulging and character - breaking guilt for Daryl ) .    The lesson ? No matter how bad a situation is , our tempers , resentments , fears , and especially our mouths can always make it far worse . What 's more , the stress levels inherent to startups makes this an even more pressing concern .   Lively discussion is one thing . And fostering a culture of disagreement is essential . But those two ingredients only take shape in the shadow of another : Safety . Combining two unlikely sources -- the first cast of Saturday Night Live and Google -- Charles Duhigg calls attention to the crying need of safety in successful organizations : " [ M]ost important , teams need psychological safety . To create psychological safety ... team leaders needed to model the right behaviors . "    These behaviors include deceptively subtle habits like not interrupting team members , ensuring everyone has equal time to participate , and -- especially -- calling out intergroup conflicts and resolving them through " open discussion . " Notice that each is about what leaders do n't say , biting their tongues and pushing back against their own knee - jerk reactions .   It 's obvious you do n't want to be a Negan - style leader , but the Daryl 's inside all of us are far more likely to make things go from bad to worse within a startup .    Image :   AMC While the previous lessons all come from some specific high points in The Walking Dead , we could easily locate this one in every episode ever . Dodging zombies might get you out a sticky situation now and then , but finding food , fire , shelter , weapons , medicine , and transportation is not a single player sport . And that does n't even include the threat that comes from other people .   Simply put : If you go in alone ... you 're not coming out .   As with zombies , so with startups . Launching a successful product or service is just the first fight . You also have to develop sales , marketing , and public relations as well as run bookkeeping , accounting and finance . There 's funding , operations , hiring and firing , building and then maintaining QA on a website , customer service , and -- most daunting -- scaling . The list goes on and on and on .   In the words of Leonard Kim , one of Inc. Magazines top digital and youth marketers : " If you 're thinking of doing a startup yourself , then you have absolutely no clue what you 're in store for . I 've spent most my adult life doing startups and and if I can admit I do n't know how to do so many of these things , then it 's okay for you to do the same . "    Admitting our ignorance does n't just apply to teams , it also applies to partners . After getting burnt early on in his career by a bad choice , Mashable contributor Josh Steimle took a hardline and decided to go it alone in his own agency . As he explains : " I struggled for the next 10 years , never really getting anywhere . Finally , in 2013 I relented and brought in a partner . A year later revenue was three times larger than it had ever been before because I invested in the right person that excelled where I could n't . "   Of course , at the end of the day , you want your startup to do more than just outlast the 90% who do n't make it . You also want to thrive . How ? By paying close attention to what might at first appear to be an unlikely source : The Walking Dead . First , stay awake to trends and innovations . Second , say no even to your most - loved ideas . Third , cultivate safety instead of making bad situations worse . And fourth , surround yourself with people who can address your own weakness .   There 's no denying it 's bloody , sweaty , tear - filled work . Robin Chase was right : " Challenges are the norm . " But if Maggie Rhee can bring new life into an all but dead world ... so can you .    Aaron Orendorff is the founder of iconiContent and a regular contributor at Entrepreneur , Lifehacker , Fast Company , Business Insider and more . Connect with him about content marketing ( and bunnies ) on Facebook or Twitter .  