Kind of harsh , I know . Can I be painfully honest with you for a moment ? Not " oh my , you have toilet paper stuck to the bottom of your shoe " honest .   No , the type of honesty that will hit you in the bottom of your stomach faster than a Taco Bell three alarm burrito type of honesty . It 's rough .   It 's real ugly . It can be unexpected . And I am going to guarantee that you will not like it . The fact is most people around you have been holding off on telling you this for months . Your closest friend and business partner have been hoping someone else would tell you this .   No one has yet .   With the utmost respect to you and them , I want to tell you the truth . I am gon na just let it fly . You know how you 've been struggling to market your startup ? Tried everything , and it 's just not working right ?    You followed a gurus advice that led you nowhere except a few thousand dollars light in the pocket . Well , it 's not because you haven't found the right startup marketing strategy . It 's not because you need to change your branding . It 's not because the rank brain at Google has it out for you and placed you on the naughty list for those last search history items they saw . It 's because you have not followed a few basic principles . If you ever want a chance to be successful with your tech startup , you better pay attention . You have come this far , so walk with me a little further . You will be glad you did . Do you think Warren Buffet is on Facebook all day looking at those cat videos ?   Or has he created a Facebook group that has a members only section so you can go there to ask questions ? I realized that one of the most common causes of failure in the startup world is that entrepreneurs are too optimistic about how easy it will be to acquire customers . This is huge . This is the 1000-lb . gorilla in the room .   You need an audience and you need revenue like you need oxygen . So many time I see entrepreneurs with a great idea and start the process only to realize they have zero money to market their product or service . It is required to get off the ground . You ca n't wish your way to success . If you can master these few things above , you are already ahead of 80 percent of the tech startups in the marketplace today .