Silk Ventures , a venture capital firm headquartered in London , with additional hubs in Menlo Park , Beijing , and Shenzen , has closed its inaugural investment fund at $ 500 million , targeting later - stage technology companies looking to expand into China . With a specific focus on so - called " scale - up " firms from the U.S. and Europe , Silk Ventures announced the fund at China 's two - day One Belt , One Road ( OBOR ) event in Beijing , an occasion that brings dozens of state - leaders from around the world together . Founded in 2015 with backing from the Chinese government , Silk Ventures has so far operated as an accelerator of sorts , working on a number of initiatives both to help Chinese companies internationalize and startups from elsewhere enter China . The first fund will focus specifically on Series A - level startups looking to target the Chinese market , covering artificial intelligence ( AI ) , internet of things ( IoT ) , fintech , robotics , medical tech , and more . The investment pot is half funded by Chinese state - owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission ( SASAC ) Shenzhen , while the remainder comes from " a group of confidential strategic corporations , " according to a statement issued by Silk Ventures , though the names are expected to be revealed in July . The VC firm has yet to conclude any investments form its first fund , a spokesperson told VentureBeat , but it does expect to announce its first deals in July too . Angelica Anton , founding partner of SILK Ventures , said : We are proud to announce our first fund which will enable us to invest into some of the world 's most promising scaling businesses and technologies . We are the only venture fund in the world doing what we are doing . We are globally aligned with expert partners in the U.S. , Europe and Asia to work with China at the highest levels to ensure that our portfolio companies are not only well - funded , but have the best chance of success in the Asian market . Silk Ventures was built to change the way Chinese capital marries Western technologies , and we pride ourselves on the cultural and operational know - how within our expanding team . Silk Ventures emerged as the European HQ for Shenzhen 's Department of Trade and Investment , which partnered with Silk Ventures to open their office in Canary Wharf in London . And this tight tie - up gives a clue as to how closely China 's government will be working with Silk Ventures -- it will be providing the " support and funding needed by promising technology companies to expand into the Chinese market , " according to a statement . A number of other funds have come to the fore in recent times , designed to create close links between China and western markets . Last year , Chinese investment firm Cocoon Networks launched a $ 715 million fund aimed at helping European startups grow in China , while IDG Capital Partners , the China - focused incarnation of San Francisco VC company IDG Ventures , launched a gargantuan $ 1 billion fund in conjunction with Silicon Valley VC firm Breyer Capital . Ultimately , any company looking to enter China faces significant regulatory hurdles , so it helps to have the local networks and partners on board to begin with . Silk Ventures ' main selling point to European and U.S. scale - ups is that it will be working directly with official Chinese local government departments , which should go some way toward easing the path to entering what should prove to be a lucrative market .