The FinTech Academy Africa , a joint initiative by FinTech Circle and Cape Innovation and Technology Initiative ( CiTi ) , is set to launch in SA on 24 and 25 April , in Johannesburg . The academy is geared toward CEOs and the like who have a limited amount of time on their hands , but who still would like a deeper understanding of best practices in fintech . The two - day curriculum has been designed to deliver a comprehensive understanding of important areas surrounding fintech in a short amount of time . CEO of CiTi , Ian Merrington commented on the joint effort in a press release to Ventureburn . " Board directors and Executive Committee members are increasingly being called upon to make far - reaching strategic business decisions in areas affected by rapidly developing disruptive technology . The curriculum of the FinTech Academy has been specifically developed to fast - track their knowledge , support decision making and also to future - proof their careers . " The FinTech Academy will aim to utilise international expertise to help participating entrepreneurs create innovative trends which can be applied to South Africa and Africa as a whole . " We have taken particular care to adapt the curriculum to be of relevance to executives who are based in Africa . South Africa and the rest of the continent present a number of unique and exciting opportunities for the use of FinTech , particularly in areas of FinTech convergence , " said the CEO and co - founder of FinTech Circle , Nicole Anderson . The curriculum which Anderson refers to will be based on an international bestseller , The FinTech Book which was co - authored by the chairman and co - founder of Fintech Circle , Susanne Chishti . " We have seen enormous interest in the Academy in Europe and we are delighted to be in a position to enable this knowledge transfer to the African Continent . We envisage running at least two Masterclass sessions per year , in South Africa , " said Chishti . Those wanting a ticket can click here . Startups or small business with less than 40 employees will qualify for the discounted Startup Ticket . Featured image : Liam Matthews via Flickr  