One of the biggest challenges we face as entrepreneurs is staying on top of everything . You have to respond to emails , make sure your website works perfectly , organize projects , keep in touch with your network , and avoid getting distracted by social media , cat videos , and tools that only make you less productive . The Internet does not just enable procrastination . It also offers solutions to busy entrepreneurs : there is an abundance of tools and services that were created to help you organize your life and business , so you can focus on doing work that matters . These resources were created by people who know what it 's like to have a to - do list that never seems to end . Many of them can be used for free , so there 's no reason not to give them a try . Trello is a free project management tool that helps you get organized . It shows a board on which you can create lists filled with cards . When you open a card , you can add comments , upload files , create checklists , and more . It is super versatile , so it can be used for many different types of things : to organize a specific project , write an ebook , create an email course , etc . It really helps you to keep a bird's - eye view on your projects . Google Docs is an essential tool for working on a file with multiple people . Everyone can add or remove text , proofread content , and give comments for others to see . You can also see who else is working on the document and chat with them , so it 's a great tool for teams . It 's also a big help for people who get confused when they have several versions of a work - in - progress . Asana is the ultimate tool for managing your projects more effectively . It works with tasks , projects , conversations , and dashboards . Teamwork has never been easier . You can turn conversations into actionable tasks , provide comments on other people 's actions , and immediately see what progress has been made - all without having to schedule meetings . Dropbox is great for storage and backups . It has a huge amount of awesome plugin apps to improve your experience . Moreover , it provides apps for every device , which means you can access your files from anywhere . Slack is a beautiful chat app is an amazing communication tool for teams and mastermind groups . Its smooth design is by far the nicest you 'll come across . Even though it 's relatively new , it is already very popular . You can create several channels to discuss different topics , or you can have a private conversation . Slack also allows you to share files and to easily find messages , notifications , and files in your archive . Everything is automatically synced on all your devices , and you can easily connect it to other apps , like WordPress or Skype . Start sharing your ideas with peers and get inspired by their questions , suggestions , and expertise . We 're all in this together . Momentum is a homepage replacement app designed to inspire you and keep you focused throughout your work day . When you open your browser , Momentum greets you by name with an inspiring picture and quote . I find Momentum immensely helpful when determining and completing my One Thing every day . Every morning , I tell it what my focus for the day will be . For the rest of the day , it reminds me of my commitment every time I open a new tab . This makes it much easier to stop wasting time on Facebook and the likes . Listening to music really helps me stay focused and productive . Obviously , this is different for everyone , but many people seem to function better with music in the background . Spotify is a great place to find the right music for every moment . You can choose what you want to listen to , or you can let Spotify surprise you . Find out what type of music keeps you focused and alert . It 's great to help you through the early afternoon dip . The 7-Minute Workout is an app that helps you stay fit and focused with short workouts . Each workout consists of 12 exercises of 30 seconds , with 10-second breaks . All you need is a chair and a wall , so this is the perfect workout app in your ( home ) office . If you 're trying to find inspiration , doing a short workout can really help you get there . A short workout will get both the adrenaline and the ideas flowing ! You can temporarily remove messages from your inbox to be reminded of them later . This really helps you focus on the task at hand , without getting distracted by other things on your to - do list . Boomerang archives the email(s ) and brings them back to your inbox at your chosen time . You can also use this app to write an email and send it later . You tell Boomerang when you want the email to be sent , and they take it from there . Moreover , it will remind you if you do n't hear back from someone , so messages wo n't slip through the maze . Take control of your inbox , before it becomes an uncontrollable mess . It can be very frustrating and time - consuming to look for someone 's email address on their ( company 's ) websites . This was a massive problem for me when looking for potential guests for my podcast . Voila Norbert finds the right email addresses , even when they 're not explicitly mentioned on a website . You just have to know the name of your contact person and the domain name of their company . Sidekick is a brilliant email add - on tells developed to tell you whether someone has opened an email you sent . It shows you when , how many times , and from where the recipient has opened your email . This can be very useful when you 're doing a round of cold emailing , trying out a new marketing campaign , or starting a newsletter . Observe people 's behavior and learn from it ! 99 Designs is perfect for finding a logo or landing page that you really love . I used them for the design of my book cover . The process is easy : you fill out a design brief , buy a package , and launch a contest . Designers from all over the world can sign up , create one or more designs , and send them to you . After receiving the results , you can choose the best one and pick the winner . Canva is an online graphic design platform . I often use it to create artwork for my website . No , it 's not a place where you find designers - you 're the designer . It is a simple drag - and - drop design tool with a library of more than 1 million photographs , graphics , and fonts to choose from . It offers free access to a wide assortment of design tools and options . You can create anything from book covers to infographics . Fiverr is a cheap yet effective marketplace ( everything starts at $ 5 ) that offers fast graphic design , translations , SEO enhancement , business cards , and anything else you could need for your business . You can also pay someone to write your message on their belly and do a jungle dance - if that 's what you 're into . It 's the go - to service if you need something done fast . Want to get advice from an expert ? Stop wasting your time browsing blogs . Clarity . FM connects you with a community of experts . You can look for professionals by name or by expertise , depending on the type of advice you 're looking for . Have a personal conversation with an experienced entrepreneur is the ultimate way to get the answers you need . Want to know what Brian Wong or Chris Brogan would do in your situation ? Just ask them ! Typeform is free service you can use to create awesome looking surveys . We all use online forms to get feedback from our readers , listeners , and customers . Unfortunately , boring surveys are likely to be ignored , which makes it harder for you to know if you 're going in the right direction . Typeform 's beautiful , clear , and mobile - friendly surveys can help you get the valuable feedback you need , without extra effort . Are you stuck and do n't know what to do next ? Do you want to control your destiny , do work that matters , and have the freedom to travel ? Hack the Entrepreneur : The Book contains 50 hacks by brilliant entrepreneurs , who have turned their startups into successful businesses . Find out how to get started , deal with failure , and learn from your mistakes . Your business will thank you later . Entrepreneurs typically want to do everything themselves and be in charge of their business . But sometimes that 's easier said than done . In reality , we do n't have enough time to take care of every single aspect of our business on our own . Let these tools and services help you organize your day , on a professional and personal level . Stop wasting time on futile tasks and take control with these simple tools . Allow yourself to see the forest for the trees and do work that really matters . Jon Nastor is the author of Hack the Entrepreneur : How to Stop Procrastinating , Build a Business , and Do Work That Matters . He is also the host of Hack the Entrepreneur on Copyblogger 's Rainmaker . FM podcast ne ...