Headquartered in Pittsburgh , PA , the new institute is made up of governments , industry , academia , and non - profit organizations from across the country . Combined they have contributed $ 173 million that will be fused with $ 80 million in federal funding . The new ARM institute , part of the Manufacturing USA network , is dedicated to help revitalize American manufacturing . The ARM Institute 's mission is to create and then deploy robotic technology by integrating the diverse collection of industry practices and institutional knowledge across many disciplines - sensor technologies , end - effector development , software and artificial intelligence , materials science , human and machine behavior modeling , and quality assurance - to realize the promises of a robust manufacturing innovation ecosystem . Technologies ripe for significant evolution within the ARM Institute include , but are not limited to , collaborative robotics , robot control ( learning , adaptation , and repurposing ) , dexterous manipulation , autonomous navigation and mobility , perception and sensing , and testing , verification , and validation . The ARM Institute joins the Manufacturing USA institute network , a program with industry , academia , and government participants who co - invest in the development of cutting edge manufacturing technologies and capabilities . It is patterned after the Fraunhofer Institute which has 67 institutes and research units located throughout Germany providing focused research on future scientific progress and economic development .   Each of the 14 new Manufacturing USA institutes focus on a technology area critical to future competitiveness and include advanced tissue biofabrication , advanced functional fabrics , photonics , digital manufacturing and design , advanced composites , flexible hybrid electronics , biopharmaceuticals , advanced semiconductor components , molecular level technologies , smart manufacturing and an accelerator .   The federal government has committed over $ 1 billion , matched by over $ 2 billion in non - federal investment , across the Manufacturing USA network .   ARM will be led by a newly established national nonprofit called American Robotics ( not to be confused with a Boston agricultural startup with the same name ) , which was founded by Carnegie Mellon University and includes a national network of 231 stakeholders from industry , academia , local governments and nonprofits . < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >