In this ' tap - and - go ' era , where access to the speed and simplicity of PayPass and cardless transactions is an expectation , seeing or hearing the phrase ' cash only ' in a store or cafe is enough to get one annoyed . There is , however , a challenge with the tap - and - go model , whereby creating a budget and sticking to it is n't always straightforward . There 's no ' physical ' limit to how much is in your wallet and it only takes a second to spend a little extra , meaning we 're more likely tack on that not - so - necessary side of chips at the end of food orders . To help people budget their earnings and encourage them to save , Sydney startup Carrott has developed an active cash management app which focuses on educating users about how to make the most of their bank account funds . The app identifies any ' lazy cash ' lying around in a bank account before prompting users to transfer funds to a savings account . Carrott will also analyse an account to identify how close a user is to their daily spending budget , and will inform them if they 're close to reaching their cap . Carrott founder Christian Raftery said the app 's aim to help improve a user 's " personal financial wellness " emerged from his own budgeting struggles . " I was charged overdrawing fees on my account because of a large direct debit which was conducted three days early , " Raftery recounted . " Additionally , during my time working in a retail banking , I noticed this recurring problem where more and more young people would deposit their salary into their transactions account , without a savings plan . So with no savings plan and only a couple thousand dollars in their transactional account , they were n't earning any interest . " With these experiences in mind , Raftery said he began imagining a way to solve the issue during a brainstorming session for the 2016 Innovation Competition hosted by IBISWorld and the University of Technology Sydney . Through Carrott 's informative push - notification functionality , Raftery seeks to promote financial literacy and get users understanding more about their money and how it can work for them .   " In Australia , the majority of personal financial education is conducted by the big banks in primary schools , and people usually only seek further information when brought on by a special event , such as buying a property , getting married or having a baby , " said Raftery . " Carrott 's tagline is ' Stop Lazy Cash ' , a meaning that goes deeper than the physical cash , and is about empowering an individual to become more financially literate . " To Raftery , " lazy cash " means any funds in a consumer 's transactional bank account that remain unused after their core expenses . The founder added that lazy cash is something that exists more nowadays , thanks to the nature of modern spending . " In the tap - and - go generation consumers make purchases on their debit card , so therefore they make payment deposits directly to this transactional account , meaning lazy cash is more likely to sit around , " Raftery said . " As a result , more and more banks say clients are n't saving on a regular basis , nor utilising these funds effectively in general . " Once on the app , users are able to connect their bank data to the platform as captured by a third - party provider , which Raftery said currently supports most of Australia 's banks . Users then input a budget amount for themselves , so the platform can notify them they 're close to their spending limit , while Carrott 's algorithm crunches an account 's data to detect if any lazy cash exists .   " The API refreshes the bank data and then runs it against three user driven rules , daily budget , lower threshold , and upper threshold , better known as the lazy cash limit . Depending on the results , the user may receive a notification on their device to suggest action be taken , " explained Raftery . Both downloading and using Carrott comes free to users ; Raftery said the service is free to further its educational purpose , while also serving as a " cashless demonstration " for a future project to potential investors . Within the pipeline of projects for the startup is another app , currently dubbed ' Project Savannah ' , which Raftery explained will allow users to the opportunity to invest their lazy cash once it 's been identified . To support the startup 's development of a new paid model , Raftery said the business has recently begun raising its first round of seed funding .