The Swiss Post plans to increasingly invest directly in startups relevant to its operations . In order to do so , it recently entered into a cooperation with investiere.ch . The obvious goal is to invest in startups which fit well with Swiss Post 's strategic business development areas and offer potential for Swiss Post 's core competencies to make a key contribution to their future success . Through targeted investments , Swiss Post also wants to participate in technological development in an effort to counter the displacement of logistics companies by technology companies . Swiss Post is particularly interested in startups in the following sectors : e - commerce , mobility , digital financial services , digital trust ( e - post ) , cross - channel communication , business process outsourcing , and sales and solutions for major business customers . In return for an investment , Swiss Post requires only a minority interest . This allows the startups to continue to develop with agility in the market . This corporate venture capital initiative is long - term in nature and enjoys the full support of the company 's leadership team . When selecting and assessing the startups , Swiss Post works with investiere.ch , a venture capital specialist , provider of an investment platform , and one of the most active startup investors in Switzerland . As part of the collaboration , Swiss Post has already made an initial investment in a robotics startup . Founded more than 160 years ago , the Swiss Post has long relied on the innovation of more than 61,000 employees in - house and conducted innovative projects with startups . In light of the challenges posed by digital transformation , Swiss Post is now additionally strengthening its capacity for innovation with targeted investments in startups . investiere.ch is one of the leading online startup investment platforms in Europe . The investiere community , which currently counts 10,000 members , independently identifies the most promising startups , which are then carefully vetted and selected by industry experts and the investiere team . To date , investiere.ch has successfully concluded more than 50 rounds of financing . investiere.ch was launched in 2010 and has offices in Baar , Zurich and Geneva .