At my firm , Wing , we recently completed a research report looking at the young companies pioneering AI - powered " data - first " applications , and there is a lot of important activity happening in this space . Collectively , these startups have raised $ 1.8 billion of venture capital to pursue their goal of disrupting the $ 150 billion - plus market for enterprise applications . In the same way robotic exoskeletons greatly increase the strength of their human operators , these software equivalents can help workers achieve far more than they can with existing applications . The range of areas being addressed by this new generation of software is growing fast . Gong and Chorus , for example , are startups using natural language processing and other AI technologies to analyze sales conversations , highlighting ways to make sales teams more effective . ClearMetal is applying machine learning to data about ship movements , port conditions , and other factors to help supply chain managers better predict the availability and cost of containers . Other young companies like Prevedere and TravelBank are leveraging AI technologies to help executives improve financial forecasts and expense management . The original business software paradigm pioneered by companies such as Oracle and SAP focused on using software to boost efficiency by codifying workflows . The data generated by the applications were treated as an afterthought . If insights were needed to guide workers , analysts were summoned to extract them from the data using specialized tools . The Software - as - a - Service revolution greatly improved the way business software was delivered and distributed , but it did n't fundamentally change this underlying approach . The new applications do . They treat data as the priority -- hence the term " data - first " -- and they leverage various AI technologies to recommend actions that are delivered directly to users , often in real time . Incumbents like Oracle are now rushing to inject AI features into their software . But as so often in the history of technology , many of the most compelling innovations will come from startups unencumbered by legacy thinking . Startups like Signifyd , which just raised $ 56 million of fresh funding to develop its anti - fraud application , are focusing on key online processes like fraud detection , ad targeting , and consumer offer optimization , where the sheer volume and velocity of decision - making is so high it 's impossible to have humans in the loop . Using AI technologies to automate all or most of the work makes sense here . Elsewhere , as our report notes , the emphasis is more on augmentation than automation . This is especially true in sensitive areas like IT security and IT operations , where a tsunami of events and alerts risks overwhelming human operators . Here , AI - powered software is being used to identify situations that merit the attention of an employee and to automate responses to some issues . For example , Moogsoft ( in which my firm is an investor ) has enabled one of its financial services clients using its " AIOps " platform to boost the number of servers an IT operations team member can monitor effectively from just over 1,000 to over 10,000 . Data - first applications are also helping to increase employee productivity in other sensitive areas like customer support . DigitalGenius applies deep learning algorithms to historical customer service transcripts and can generate automated responses to new queries or suggest ones for call center agents to use . By analyzing inbound queries and ensuring they are routed to the right teams , DigitalGenius claims it can increase agent capacity by around 30 percent . As a recent New York Times story trumpeted , hiring is up , wages are up , and jobless rates are at a 10-year low . As the labor market continues to tighten in America , companies need to find innovative new ways to boost the productivity of their employees . Those that fail to adopt data - first applications will leave their employees at a distinct disadvantage . Those that want to be in the vanguard will need to evaluate next - generation software applications quickly . Some of the criteria against which to assess them include : As they penetrate more companies and business functions , data - first applications will inevitably find themselves swept up in the debate about whether AI - driven automation is going to destroy large numbers of jobs . Yet in most cases , the new applications ' role will be to automate basic tasks and help employees become more productive as they are freed up to focus on more value - added activities . This ability to act as a force multiplier for humans will become even more valuable as ageing populations place a greater burden on remaining workers to drive future economic growth . As a society , we 'll need to think carefully about the implications of software - driven automation in certain sectors of the economy . But the direction of change is clear . The companies and executives that are most adept at building machine - assisted workforces will be the ones that come out on top in the emerging era of AI - driven competition . Martin Giles is a Partner at Wing Venture Capital .