Tech . Co has partnered with Arlington Economic Development to bring you this story . For more in this sponsored series : AED ecosystem . Do you currently live outside the greater DC area ? Do you want to change that ? If you 're a cool startup founder or CEO , Startup Arlington wants you to , and they have the grant to back it up . Startup Arlington is aimed at entrepreneurs from outside the greater DC area who are interested in locating their business in Arlington , an urban area located right across the Potomac River from Washington , D.C. Startup Arlington is looking to accept those with a business that could benefit from being in the area and gaining access to Capital area agencies or resources . Any applicants must be at least 21 years of age , a U.S. citizen , and currently be the founder / CEO of a technology company not currently based in the greater DC area but who would be available to reside in Arlington if selected for the period of April 1 until June 30 , 2017 . Applications will be evaluated on criteria including just how much the location change would be beneficial for the company to the background experience of the founding team and their overall business plan and growth potential . This year Startup Arlington has partnered with private equity firm Kiddar Capital to provide $ 25,000 in investment capital for a truly remarkable startup to grow its business in Arlington 's Crystal City neighborhood . What 's more , the Startup Arlington winner will also receive three months of lodging at WhyHotel / The Bartlett , one of the newest luxury pop - up hotel and apartment buildings in Arlington with more than 40,000 square feet of amenities and services provided by Vornado Realty Trust .   The winning startup will also receive incubator space at the Crystal City offices of 1776 with access to expert mentorship and a powerful network to help the company grow . You 'll need to start working on your application this month : The application period begins January 5 and will remain open until the end of the day on January 31 . Terms and conditions are fully explained over here . Check out the site to get started . Image : Flickr / La Citta Vita