Over $ 300-billion of oil and gas exploration projects have been shelved since the oil price fell from a high of $ 120 in July 2014 to a low of $ 25 in early 2015 -- but three South Africans ' use of a statistical algorithm promises to cut the cost of finding oil and gas . While unlisted UK company Africa New Energies ( ANE ) recently became the subject of a bidding war with valuations of hundreds of millions of dollars , analysts remain cautious , with the company yet to discover a single barrel of oil . The company , launched by Stephen Larkin , Brendon Raw and Shakes Motsilili in 2012 , uses data collected from satellites , aircraft and ground - based earthquake detection monitors to scope for oil and gas . ANE is backed by both the UN and the Namibian government , which has awarded the company a   22 000 square kilometre concession - an area larger than Gauteng . It plans to start drilling in 2018 . Zak Mir , the media pundit who hosts TipTV in London said ANE 's algorithm was the first technology innovation with a realistic chance of success to emerge after the industry slump -- with many exploration techniques still overly reliant on seismic methods , which were introduced in 1924 . " While there is a bit of a dot com feel to these rumours , I have no doubt that interest in ANE 's technology will reach fever - pitch if its drilling programme in the Kalahari does deliver . " Andrew Turpin , a former head of media relations at energy companies Iberdrola and Centrica and Indian oil refining group Essar , said ANE 's algorithm materially improves the notoriously low probability of finding land - based hydrocarbons through drilling expensive test wells . The algorithm can prove even more valuable , he said , in that it enables remote desktop assessment of hundreds of potential hydrocarbon deposits across entire continents , making it possible for investors to rank prospects before they have set foot in the country . This can eliminate the risk of wasting billions on infrastructure . " In a world where oil majors are paying $ 17 to replace each barrel of reserves using their internal geological teams and investor sentiment is moving away from mega - hydrocarbon projects , ANE 's algorithm is a potential game changer , " said Turpin . " However , there is still a risk for any bidder looking at ANE . Nothing is proven yet and most bidders would want clarity that the Kalahari acreage contains more than just fossilised sea water , " he stressed . Edward Stock of Artaois , the London - based independent energy markets consultancy said " the industry is facing a dilemma as to where new reserves will come from . This is a time where investment into high - cost exploration in hostile environments is waning and the current focus on fracking is seen as uneconomical at the current prices . " Technology that will increase the efficiency of exploration while providing returns at current levels should be attracting investment back into the sector . " But Stock agrees with Turpin 's caution . " Nothing is proven yet , and ANE 's unorthodox funding model constrains the amount of capital it can raise .   The company claims a prospective resource of 1.6 billion barrels -- so -- at ANE 's forecast of $ 40 per barrel -- the outcome of its drilling campaign is one that the rest of the industry will be watching closely . " ANE 's South African country manager Shakes Motsilili was tight - lipped when asked to comment on the bids , stating that if any discussions were happening they tended to be drawn out over many months and would be subject to confidentiality . ANE CEO Stephen Larkin will be hosted by Startup Grind Cape Town on 25th April to talk about the potential for crowdfunding to galvanise other South African tech startups .