In early 2017 , the techies 2017 awards will celebrate entrepreneurship , innovation and disruption in the UK technical space . The deadline for entries is 6 February 2017 with the awards ceremony to be held on 23 February 2017 . Enter the techies 2017 today ! The techies 2017 champions all that is great about the UK technology sector , offering a series of prestigious awards to some of the nation 's best technologists , company builders , mentors and investors . Awards will go to forward - thinking individuals and companies that are pushing the boundaries in everything from mobile app development and wearables , to security and cloud technology .   Through the techies , Techworld will bring some of the most progressive firms to the forefront of people 's minds and shine a spotlight on UK tech innovation excellence . We want to promote the best new tech in companies of all sizes from startups to enteprises .   We 're accepting entries right now , so be sure to spread the word to people and companies that you think could be in with a shout of winning one of what we expect to quickly become highly sought after awards . You can see some of last year 's winners in our the techies 2016 winners piece . The deadline for entries is Monday 6 February 2017 .   Ticketmaster : " A big thanks to everyone at Techworld for the recognition and organising such a fun and inspiring evening , and hats off to Ticketmaster for sweeping the Techies 2016 ! " Clearscore : " The Techies celebrates startups , digital disruptors , innovation and emerging technology , and we were proud to be among a host of inspiring and trailblazing businesses . " Darktrace : " We are delighted to see the fundamental innovation of our ' immune system ' technology recognised by The Techies . " Secure Trading : " It 's fantastic to win an award that recognises our success in approaching the acquiring market in a different way and bringing the very best solutions to market for our customers . " RAVN : " We are delighted to win this award . In addition to law firms implementing a variety of automated review processes , RAVN is excited to be working with organisations from the media , telecoms , professional services and financial services sectors to revolutionise their handling of unstructured data . " Finalists will be invited to attend an exclusive evening at the 5-star Mondrian Hotel in central London , where Techworld will host a glitzy awards ceremony , followed by an after party and networking .   The evening will be full of surprises beginning with a drinks reception and the awards will be followed by a dazzling techies after party . It 's going to be an evening to remember . Find out more by viewing the techies 2016 awards - Photos and highlights . Click here for a full list of the techies 2017 awards categories . Or surf over here to enter the techies 2017 . We have had loads of truly impressive entries , but there is still chance for your business or colleague to shine !   A variety of sponsorship opportunities are available . Applications will be judged by Techworld 's editorial team in conjunction with a distinguished panel of experts . See the terms and conditions here .   For more information and a full list of the awards please visit The Techies website .  