Finding a business opportunity is a challenge for most entrepreneurs . We 're saturated with companies specializing in almost every business opportunity . For this reason , new entrepreneurs are left wondering how they can start up a business and compete with already established enterprises . To grow your startup , you need to analyze the market forces in the industry you want to invest in . Identify the weaknesses of most companies in the industry and use them as an opportunity . Farmgirl Flowers is an example of a successful start - up that has grown to a leading supplier of flowers in United States , using gaps in the flower industry as opportunities to succeed . Farmgirl is an e - commerce flower store that was started by Christina , popularly known as the farm girl . Christina was brought up by her parents , who grew corn and soybeans . She grew up with a passion for running an innovative business . Through her passion , she discovered an opportunity in the flower market . Most flower suppliers imported flowers from other countries . For this reason , local flower farmers were forced to quit flower farming . Since the flowers were imported , consumers had to incur an extra cost while purchasing a flower gift . In United States , people use more than $ 26 billion on flower products . More than 83 thousand people earn a living from the industry . However , 45 percent of the flowers are wasted even before they reach the market . Christina used the gap and decided to support local flowerers by purchasing and selling their flowers at a cheaper price to customers . Her company worked with an objective of reducing wastage and selling 100 percent U.S. grown flowers . To make Farmgirl a different flower enterprise , she decided to find a unique brand identity that could make her company stand out from traditional flower suppliers . Most traditional companies used cellophane as their brand identity . After brainstorming with friends , she came up with the unique Burlap wrapped bouquet as their brand . Farmgirl uses a Burlap wrap derived from coffee bags to wrap up their flower selection . The firm works with local flower firms who supply them with different varieties of flowers . Unlike traditional flower suppliers , Farmgirl works to ensure that their clients get the best experience while placing orders online . A client can make an order in less than five minutes . After placing an order , Farmgirl 's staff will design a beautiful package and deliver it to the flower recipient within a short time . Farmgirl started as a local supplier but has grown to supply customers around San Francisco , Daly City , Brisbane , Colma , San Bruno and other parts of America . They are planning to expand their boundaries to a global scale . Most customers were dissatisfied with traditional e - commerce flower companies after placing an order just to get a pack that does n't resemble what was ordered . Farmgirl addressed the gap by using " what you see is what you get " principle to supply customers with what they exactly ordered . To assure clients of quality services , Farmgirl works with a team of experts specialized in different fields . Farmgirl 's staff is experienced in Flower design , flower delivery , web management , and customer service management . Despite a humble beginning , Farmgirl is currently a top destination for people hosting weddings and other events in California . The company 's florist designers help clients pick seasonal flowers that match the colors used in the decor of an event . Farmgirl 's experts also go a step higher to educate customers on how to care for their selection . With its high - quality services , Farmgirl has grown to become a leading flower supplier in United States .