( Reuters ) -- A U.S. judge on Thursday called for an investigation into allegations of trade secret theft that were raised in a court battle between Silicon Valley giants Uber and Alphabet over their rival self - driving car programs . U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco also partially granted Alphabet 's self - driving Waymo unit 's bid for an injunction against Uber 's self - driving efforts , and rejected Uber 's arguments that Waymo 's trade secret allegations should proceed in private arbitration . The rulings are a setback for Uber as it tries to gain an advantage in litigation with serious strategic and financial consequences in the nascent field of autonomous technology . The ride services company failed to remove the ongoing case from public view and now faces the prospect of getting caught up in a fresh criminal probe . The acrimonious trade secrets battle could determine the future of Uber 's self - driving car operations and the strength of Waymo 's toehold in the sector . Alsup filed his injunction opinion temporarily under seal , so its scope and details could not immediately be learned . The case hinges on over 14,000 confidential files that Waymo , formerly Google 's self - driving car program , alleges were stolen by former Waymo employee Anthony Levandowski before he left the company . Levandowski , who is not a defendant in the civil case , subsequently co - founded self - driving truck start - up Otto that was acquired months later by Uber . Waymo claims the stolen information made its way into Uber 's Lidar system , a sensor that uses light pulses to " see " the environment . It alleges the documents allowed Uber to fast - track its own technology and avoid years of costly research . In referring the case to the U.S. Department of Justice for investigation of possible trade secret theft , Alsup said he took " no position " on whether a criminal prosecution was warranted . In his arbitration ruling , however , the judge noted the record contained " ample evidence " that Levandowski breached his duty of loyalty to Waymo . Uber declined to comment on Alsup 's request for a separate criminal investigation into the theft allegations . In a statement the company said " we remain confident in our case and welcome the chance to talk about our independently developed technology . " Uber has not denied that Levandowski took Waymo 's documents , but says they never made their way to Uber , nor into its own designs . Representatives for the Justice Department could not immediately be reached for comment , nor could attorneys for Levandowski . The engineer has not commented publicly on the allegations . Reuters reported last week that the Justice Department had begun a separate criminal investigation into Uber 's use of a software tool that helped its drivers evade local transportation regulators . In a statement , Waymo said Uber 's bid to have the civil case heard in private by an arbitrator , not a jury , was a " desperate " attempt to avoid the court 's jurisdiction . Unlike court proceedings , which are largely conducted in public , arbitrations take place behind closed doors . Because Levandowski was not a defendant in the case , Uber could not use his arbitration agreement with Waymo to force the trade secret claims into a private forum , Alsup wrote . The Alphabet unit asked Alsup to issue an injunction preventing Uber from using Waymo 's trade secrets , and Levandowski from working on Lidar . Complicating Uber 's task is the fact that Levandowski has invoked his constitutional right against self - incrimination and has refused to testify . Alsup wrote that Levandowski 's position " has obstructed and continues to obstruct both discovery and defendants ' ability to construct a complete narrative as to the fate of Waymo 's purloined files . " Uber had already announced that Levandowski would step aside from working on Lidar while the case was being litigated , and said the company would agree to a court injunction that formalized that arrangement . However , Waymo sought a broader injunction that would prevent Uber from using a series of its trade secrets . ( Reporting by Dan Levine ; Editing by Stephen Coates )