In 2015 , 23 percent of employees reported doing a portion of their work remotely , up from 19 percent in 2003 , Bureau of Labor Statistics data shows . But despite the growth in employees who identify as remote workers   - as well as employers seeking remote workers - there is a gap between how those in a traditional work environment can develop skills to excel remotely . I hear " I wish I had a remote job " MUCH more than " What are skills I could learn that are needed in a remote role ? " # remotework # alwayslearn -- Jacqueline ( @JackieMJensen ) January 29 , 2017   We asked seven women who work remotely to share the skills they believe are needed to be successful in a remote role . Check out what they had to say below : " Communication is hard , remote communication is a lot worse . Bad communication is everywhere . The tiniest slip of the mind or finger can undermine a carefully planned communication strategy . Being remote actually allows you to practice intentional and thoughtful communication far more . Own this skill and let it be a second nature to you . " - Liz van Dijk of Percona " You must have confidence to take control of everything - for the sake of your success and happiness . " - Kat Loughrey of CloudPeeps " I 've needed the ability to push projects forward on my own . I decide what needs to happen next without needing to consult anyone . " - Angela Rollins of Tortuga " I took for granted how many breaks are built into a traditional office job . From casually chatting in the office kitchen to walking to another part of the office to do something . As a remote worker , it 's very easy to get overworked and forget to give your brain a rest . " - Arielle Tannenbuam of Buffer " I 've had to work hard over the years to become disciplined - not at getting my work done , but at putting it down . " - Sarah Hawk of FeverBee " Outside input and inspiration for your work is very important . I had to take control of building a professional network and community around my new workstyle . " - Laura Winton , Content Creator and Social Media Manager " Set it up for healthy posture , comfort , and efficiency . Your dedicated workspace should n't be in a random spare room in a corner - inspirational vibe is key ! Remember , remote working is not for everyone . If you need to be in a building with people physically present to get the energy , direction , and connections you need to feel motivated , working remotely is n't for you . " - Aimee Charlton of Best Friends Animal Society The idealism around remote work is like the pedestal we place startup founders on in popular culture . Some tend to only see the benefits of skipping a commute or the freedom to travel . Being successful at remote work takes a specific skill set and requires sacrifices . Read more about remote work here on Tech . Co  