Financial advice startup Moneysoft has partnered with Mortgage Choice to produce and launch MoneyTrack , a financial planning tool to be made available to its network of advisers through its cashflow coaching service . Tania Milnes , general manager of Mortgage Choice Financial Planning , said the tool will provide a " robust basis " for the advice it currently provides . " It gives clients an easy to understand tool that provides a clear picture of their spending and saving habits and helps steer the conversation around achieving their financial goals , " she said . The platform will also boost efficiency for advisers , added Jon Shaw , head of technology and commercial operations at Moneysoft . " Our technology features straight - through processing which cuts down on manual data entry , delivering time savings to advisers while also enabling them to develop a greater understanding of their clients ' individual financial circumstances , " he said . Launched by former accountant and financial adviser Peter Malekas in 2012 and having raised $ 1.5 million in funding from backers including BlueChilli , Moneysoft was built with financial professionals in mind including , among others , financial advisers and planners , mortgage brokers and aggregators , and super funds . Its Moneysoft Pro platform enables users to provide clients with cash flow , budgetary , and money management services by bringing together a client 's accounts , loans , mortgage and any other products into one view , while its Individuals platform allows users to link all their accounts , set money goals , and track their progress . With Mortgage Choice on board , Moneysoft stated its customer base of financial advisory and dealer groups has now grown to 10 . The partnership follows another with Link Group , provider of fund administration solutions , announced a few months ago , with the companies to work together on new products for super fund members . In the five years since the startup 's launch , the number of tech players offering financial advice has exploded ; robo - advice for the consumer has become a particularly popular segment , with the likes of Stockspot , Acorns , and HashChing just a few working in the space . Facing disruption , however , some in the financial planning space have come to embrace tech tools to better enable them to serve their clients . Joining Moneysoft with a solution aimed at this market is myprosperity , which recently announced former managing director of Xero Australia , Chris Ridd as its CEO , with MYOB cofounder Craig Winkler an investor . The platform has developed an online solution to help accountants and advisers better work with their clients .