The battle between startups and corporations is a myth . While business is always a competition for more customers , attention , and capital , there is no inherent beef between a company that 's just starting out and one that is well - established in their market . Startups help corporations stay nimble and in the front lines of consumer trends . Corporations support startups through the tough times and mentor them during their growth cycles . And if you do n't believe me , just ask Seth Priebatsch , Chief Ninja at LevelUp . If you haven't heard of LevelUp , this five - year - old startup is partnering with Chase on the Chase Pay app , the company 's mobile payments product . With advanced technology that allows customers to order food ahead of time to avoid the lines , LevelUp and Chase Pay are aiming to transform the way you think about payments . Now in select cities including Dallas , Chase Pay app users can save $ 5 the first time ordering ahead from participating restaurants . Also , the two are helping restaurants large and small be ready for mobile payments , helping them grow their business through order ahead , offers , and customer analytics . At Dallas Startup Week , Seth sat down with Jen Roberts , the head of Chase Pay and digital products at Chase , to talk about his entrepreneurial journey . They touched on the value of transparency , the importance of great team building , and everything in between . If you ask an entrepreneur what the key to success is , they 'll almost always say it 's the team . Having a qualified group of employees that understand the mission and work hard to achieve it is the only real way to make sure you 're set up for success . So how do you hire a great team ? You have to interview the right way . " In the hiring we 've done , we try to spend half of our time in the   interview answering questions rather than asking them . When we do that , people that accept the job end up really know what they 're getting into , which has worked out pretty well for us . " When people know what they 're doing and can properly predict how things are going to go , they 're a lot less wary about their future at their company . And if retention matters to you , this method of interviewing is going to go a long way . " People who are doing a great job are happy and they stay . " When building a company , having an honest and trustworthy relationship with employees is key to a sustainable company culture . Seth took this to heart when it came to starting his company , employing a transparency policy that takes things to the next level . " One of the things that LevelUp works hard to do is practice what we preach through radical transparency . Everyone agrees that transparency is a good thing . One of the things we like to do is take that to its logical extreme . If you work at LevelUp and it 's your first day , whether you 're an intern or if you 've been there since the beginning , you get access to a real - time database of every transaction running through our system . " Sure , Seth was participating in a chat led by Chase , but this is a great example of how strong and authentic the relationship is . Because when it comes to working with big corporations , startups can tap into their large network , experience and work through challenges of growing a business . If you 're interested in checking out the full fireside chat with Seth , watch it below : Read all our coverage of Dallas Startup Week here on Tech . Co .