Getting your elevator pitch down for investors is one thing . But what you might not know is that your customers can sell your product a lot more effectively than you can . However , without specific training , they might not be getting the pitch right . Recently I sat down with Moisey Uretsky , cofounder of DigitalOcean , and talked about the elevator pitch . Moisey said that founders and investors often focus on their elevator pitch , and that 's fine . But what most do n't know is that it 's not nearly as important as the customer 's elevator pitch . He explained that it is the elevator pitch that a customer of a startup would give on behalf of a startup to a prospective customer . That elevator pitch becomes a kind of litmus test for how well the company is doing , and it 's also an easy shortcut . That is , the customer elevator pitch embodies both - a successful product and customers that are so happy , they talk about the product to prospective customers .   First , a Product - Market - Fit is achieved when most sales succeed and most customers do n't feel sick after a sale . This is called the Magic Moment , and once a customer reaches that state , the probability of the customer returning in the future is dramatically higher . The Magic Moment leads to a viable long - term business and you get to Product - Market - Fit - customers buy and stay happy . However , the Product - Market - Fit by itself is n't always an indicator of a great business . If people keep buying the product or service , but do n't tell other potential customers , the cost of acquiring customers would still be high and margins of the business may suffer .   DigitalOcean found Product - Market - Fit after they launched a simple , affordable hosting service using SSD drives . They poured a ton of love and exceptional support on top , which eventually lead to its success . This offering strongly resonated with developers , and they flocked from other providers like Amazon and Rackspace to DigitalOcean . The product was so great that developers started recruiting other developers with this elevator pitch : simple , affordable , and super cool hosting service . In turn , this elevator pitch resonated with new customers and the referrals started pouring in .   DigitalOcean took advantaged of this dynamic and put more gasoline on the fire by introducing a double referral program that gave credit to both existing and new customers . That strategy drastically lowered the cost of customer acquisition and lead to a great business and great margins . As a result , DigitalOcean helped create a perfect customer elevator pitch : a seemingly simple but incredibly powerful way to look at your business . What is your customer 's elevator pitch ?   This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .