BI Intelligence This story was delivered to BI Intelligence Apps and Platforms Briefing subscribers . To learn more and subscribe , please click here . Onyx Connect , a South African startup , will begin mass producing a $ 30 smartphone in June , according to CNN . The privately backed company received a 150 million rand ( $ 11 million ) investment from undisclosed investors in 2016 . This will make Onyx the first African smartphone manufacturer , according to the company . The low - cost smartphone will run on a " clean " version of Android , which means it wo n't come preloaded with apps . The company signed a licensing deal with Google in December 2016 , giving it the opportunity to use the clean Android software . This differs from most other Android - run devices , which come pre - loaded with Google Suite and carrier - branded apps . Removing pre - loaded apps means the phone will be able to cater to various African languages by providing space for country - specific apps . Low - cost smartphones can act as a catalyst for smartphone adoption in emerging markets like Africa , and could also help boost developer interest in the continent . Africa is affected by a fluctuating currency , which is partly responsible for stifled smartphone shipment growth . Moreover , an uptick in smartphone adoption could also help drive infrastructure investments . Once local governments and international tech companies see a growing demand for smartphone connectivity , it 's likely investments will follow . For instance , the Nigerian Communications Commission recently made investments to improve the country 's mobile network ecosystem . But Onyx 's new product faces stiff competition from Chinese low - cost phone makers , which have a head start in tapping the entry - level African market . For example , Huawei offers budget smartphones for around $ 40 and currently dominates the South African market , according to an Onyx employee . Huawei was the third - largest African smartphone vendor in 2016 and has increasingly shown interest in the African market . By undercutting the competition , Onyx Connect is likely hoping to appear more attractive to consumers . The global smartphone market is expected to slow considerably over the next few years . Despite a record - setting holiday quarter , 2015 was likely the last year of double - digit growth for smartphone shipments . Mature markets were at the heart of this year 's deceleration . Adoption has reached new highs in key markets in the United States , Europe , and China . The pool of first - time buyers in these countries is shrinking rapidly , and sales are now primarily coming from phone upgrades . Meanwhile , emerging markets will continue to see robust shipment growth . India and Indonesia , in particular , will help fuel a large share of the shipments growth within the global smartphone market over the next few years . BI Intelligence , Business Insider 's premium research service , has compiled a detailed report on smartphones by country that forecasts the market through 2021 to reflect slower , stabilizing growth in the long term . Here are some key points from the report : In full , the report : To get your copy of this invaluable guide , choose one of these options : The choice is yours . But however you decide to acquire this report , you 've given yourself a powerful advantage in your understanding of the smartphone market .