Increasingly , companies are turning to artificial intelligence to understand what people say about their products and services on Twitter or Facebook . The goal is to react more quickly to complainers and perhaps sell more stuff to happy customers . But with sarcasm , there is a big gap between what people say and what they mean . And , because computers tend to take everything literally , they simply do n't get the joke . For example , " You look wonderful " can mean two very different things depending on the context and the speaker . It could mean that you do , in fact , look great , or it could mean the opposite coming from the late comedian Don Rickles , with his trademark exaggerated eye roll . This is one reason people still get frustrated with Apple 's Siri , Amazon Alexa , and other virtual personal assistants : They tend to get lost in a world laced with irony . This is a tough problem for AI to handle , but one that conversational analytics startup Gong , based in Tel Aviv with U.S. offices in Palo Alto , Calif. , hopes to solve . Companies wanting to fine - tune online recommendations , for example , would like to know if a user who wrote , " I loved this movie " is serious or flippant . It 's a problem that film information site The Internet Movie Database tries to overcome using an algorithm that analyzes people 's comments to automatically create a rating of one to 10 . But , a user who says a movie is " fantastic " could generate an excellent review that really does not reflect the user 's intent if he or she meant it sarcastically , Lotem Peled , chief data scientist for Gong , tells Fortune . The problem is that " input may be sarcastic but output is not sarcastic , " she adds . She therefore created a neural network , basically a system that collects conversational data and automatically tries to make sense of it , without programmers having to intervene much . Any sort of AI project needs to test its theories and hypothesis , so Peled built her own data set from a massive number of tweets over the past few months . During the lead up to the U.S. presidential election , there was " lots of sarcasm out there " to work with , she joked . Peled is interested in researching problems where AI technology still lags human intelligence . " AI is very advanced in some aspects , but in terms of understanding human nuances it 's still pretty far off . " She conducted research at Technion Israel Institute of Technology , and now Gong is incorporating it in its own software . By getting a better handle on what people really mean , Gong thinks it can help do some very pragmatic things like helping sales people close more deals . To accomplish that , Gong records phone or online conversations between sales people and customers or would - be customers . By analyzing information about who speaks longer -- the buyer or seller -- as well as pauses in the conversation , along with how many deals get done , Gong says it can help sales teams sell better . Gong technology can thus be used in conjunction with business software from Salesforce and other companies , she noted , that teams use to track sales and target potential customers . " It 's not quantitative but qualitative data , " said Peled , whose project , which she calls the " Sarcasm Sentimental Interpretation GeNerator " ( SIGN ) , is detailed here . Basically , Peled 's system looks at conversations and parses not only words for what is positive or negative as well as pauses between speakers and words . then it maps the conversations to sales outcomes . Did this chat lead to an additional sale or not ? To be fair , virtually every software company , including Salesforce , Microsoft , Google and others are talking a lot about integrating AI smarts into their products . Gong 's secret sauce thus far appears to be its ability to suss out sarcasm . Above : Gong relies on artificial intelligence to detect sarcasm . There are also important noncommercial uses for this research . Improving AI 's understanding of sarcasm could help people with autism or Asperger 's syndrome , who often have difficulty discerning whether others are being sarcastic , by cuing them in to the meaning of what people say to them . There are other nuances that AI could address better as well . For example , knowing when words are meant literally or figuratively can avoid a lot of problems . Anyone who remembers the late , great Get Smart sitcom of the 1960s may recall that Hymie the Robot was overly literal . When someone told Hymie to " kill the lights , " for example , Hymie would shoot out the lights . This story originally appeared on Fortune.com . Copyright 2017