As an entrepreneur involved with two highly successful full - stack technology businesses , I spent fifteen years curiously wondering how venture capitalists make decisions . When I was n't focused on delivering value to customers and employees , I focused on how I could demonstrate that value to VCs in order to raise capital . Often the process felt like it was shrouded in mystery -- conjuring images of tribal gatherings , Shark Tank - like voting sessions and perhaps an Ouija board or two . Even after I secured capital with several of the best firms , I still felt like an element of luck was involved . Now that I find myself on the other side of the table after founding my own VC firm , the mystery has been revealed . In short , I have discovered that successfully presenting your company is a skill that can be learned by understanding the venture capitalist point of view , and gaining clarity into the VC approach is different from understanding how to be an entrepreneur . The biggest difference between an entrepreneur and a venture capitalist comes down to mindset . Entrepreneurs specifically tend to take an insider 's view of their business and then extrapolate that view to the market while venture capitalists do the opposite -- take in the market landscape first . Understanding this difference is the key to securing critical capital necessary to keep dreams afloat . The following chart illustrates what those views look like in practice : The differences are subtle but important . Entrepreneurs that understand these framing devices can modify their approach to raising capital by crafting a compelling story that appeals to investors ' practical market sensibilities . A winning story should address all of the following aspects :   1 . Be conservative and detailed when you talk about the market you 're addressing . Spend a significant amount of time thinking about who exactly will be your customers , making sure to differentiate between total available market , serviceable available market and serviceable obtainable market . Be accurate and realistic . 2 . Give VCs a balanced view about potential competition . Do n't just make a simple competitive landscape grid that magically depicts your business in the upper right quadrant . Instead , think deeply about current and future competitors , and show that your company has a plan to handle competitors as well as to discourage substitutes . Explain why you are winning today and why you will continue to win tomorrow . 3 . Give VCs a view into the customer 's mindset . Why are customers buying your product and how satisfied are they ? What steps are you taking to maintain or increase that satisfaction ? Explain to us what your average customer is thinking as they buy and use your product . 4 . Help us understand how you are building your team . We 've already read your biographies and know about your past work experience but we are looking for more context . Be prepared to tell us why your current team is relevant to your strategy and talk openly about future executive needs . 5 . Spend time on key business metrics , not just financials . Financials are helpful , but at an early stage , money may not be the best indication of future success . Focus instead on spelling out the key unit economics that will be crucial to financial success as your business grows , such as gross margins , the cost of customer acquisition , and the lifetime value of a customer . 6 . Be thoughtful about what could go wrong - both internally and externally . My favourite question to ask is a simple one . Let 's say we are in a bar , two years from now , drowning our sorrows because this business failed ... what happened ? Think about external factors and internal factors . This is n't being negative , it is being thoughtful and showing a critical mindset about how you will grow and expand your business and what obstacles you imagine you will have to overcome to do so . 7 . Passion might not win the day , but it is incredibly important . If you , as the entrepreneur , are not personally convinced that the idea you are pursuing is worth every waking moment of your professional life than you can not expect others to get excited either . VCs are looking at both the idea and the entrepreneur 's personal commitment to making an idea a success . Do not underestimate how critical your passion , commitment and enthusiasm is to making your dream a reality . An entrepreneur 's job is to educate potential investors Any presentation that follows all of the above guidelines will help to close the massive information gap between an entrepreneur and a source of capital . Too often , entrepreneurs feel like venture capitalists " just do n't get it , " but this idea usually stems from the fact that no one has done a thorough job of explaining it to them . VCs ' tough questions or reticent attitudes are often just ways to push entrepreneurs to give a more comprehensive and outward - facing view . An entrepreneur who gives potential investors what they want understands better how investors evaluate potential and assess risk . If you can show us that you understand and appreciate our interests and the VC point of view , we will be more eager to work with you to help you grow and improve your business in ways that appeal to the market . Feature image : Michael Pollak via Flickr . Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Entrepreneurship