Adam Berry / Getty Images Facebook wants to grab a big chunk of the $ 70 billion - plus US TV ad market . The opportunity is clear . Even as the social network 's advertising business has exploded , driven by small and mid - sized companies , major brand advertisers -- that is companies that sell soda and cereal and razor blades and beer -- have historically spent the largest portions of their budgets on TV ads . Break in to TV advertising , and billions of dollars could flow to Facebook . The challenge for the tech giant is breaking old habits and fending off resistance from suspicious media companies . Despite the ongoing decline in live TV viewing , large swaths of marketers ' budgets have remained stubbornly locked up in TV advertising . And for the most part , TV advertising is controlled by TV companies . That leaves tech platforms like Facebook with a few options if they want to jam their way into the TV ad world . They can : It 's the latter route that Facebook has chosen . The company aspires to help TV companies sell ads using their sophisticated digital ad tech and robust data . The focus is on ads that are delivered when people watch content on their TVs via apps , ranging from individual TV networks apps to services that aggregate content from multiple networks . People in the TV business refer to this as " OTT " or " over the top " viewing , where consumers get their TV via a device like a Roku or Chromecast , rather than through a set - top cable box . Facebook is facing some resistance , however , and its OTT ad play is a work in progress . Meanwhile , rivals such as Amazon , Google and Hulu , a joint venture between Walt Disney Co. , 21st Century Fox , Comcast 's NBCUniversal and Time Warner , will be well positioned to experiment with more sophisticated TV ad tactics later this year . The stakes are high . The faster that one of these tech companies can establish that it is the one that can bring innovation to TV advertising , the more TV partners it is likely to land and more advertisers it will be able to work with . An early foothold will theoretically make it a lot harder for other tech to gain real traction in the TV ad ecosystem . Last November , Recode reported that Facebook had kicked off a small test with a handful of partners , including Roku , A+E Networks and the startup Tubi TV . Ad buyers say that while those test have continued , the amount of ad inventory available remains limited , and Facebook has moved at a deliberate pace . Facebook has focused on " OTT ads , " or ads that appear as people stream TV on apps via connected TVs using devices like Rokus or Apple TVs . While a huge chunk of viewing on web - connected TVs is driven by non - ad supported content ( Netflix , Amazon , HBO , etc . ) , the ad tech company Videology recently issued a report that found the number of ad campaigns including some amount of OTT ad inventory ' jumped sixfold over the past two years . For example , last summer NBCU saw big increases in people streaming the Olympics via connected TVs . But i t 's not clear just how aggressive Facebook is actually being when it comes to trying to land more TV partners for this initiative . " It 's been more noise than action , " said an ad buyer . " There is no real Facebook TV right now . " Apple Several major TV companies said they 've yet to even hear from Facebook about this program , for example . One ad industry insider said that Facebook appears to have hit a wall when it comes to getting more big media companies to sign on . That 's because many traditional media firms view Facebook with suspicion , given its dominance in digital advertising , where some see monopolistic practices . And in general , TV ad companies , despite cord - cutting and declining ratings , do n't typically have trouble selling ads in their top shows and do n't like the idea of a third party selling their ad space . " We 'll never let them sell our stuff , " said one top TV ad sales exec . Traditionally , TV networks have sold ads during live breaks , and these ads reach the entire country at once . But theoretically , as more people stream TV using apps or cable - alternative services like DirecTV Now , advertisers can show different ads to different people , much like they do on websites . The idea with this test is that Facebook could sell TV ad space to a wider swath of advertisers , and potentially individual viewers could receive more targeted ads . For example , Facebook could show different ads to men and women watching the same TV content within a network 's app , or show specific ads to groups like people likely to be in the market for a new car . Given what Facebook knows about its users ' characteristics and interests , it should theoretically be pretty good at this sort of thing . " Of all the digital platforms , they do the best to use their data for relevant advertising , " said Tracey Scheppach , a veteran ad buyer who is now CEO of the consultancy Matter More Media . But Scheppach also gets why TV networks are resistant . " It 's a recipe for that behemoth to control too much data . " So far , Facebook 's OTT ad rollout seems to be slow going . Yet Facebook is hiring more people for the initiative and wants to demonstrate the potential of the medium early on before rolling it out more widely , according to someone familiar with the matter . " Our initial testing started six months ago , " said a Facebook spokesperson . " It 's still very early . Scale will come soon enough . " Amazon , Google and Hulu are positioned to race ahead , in contrast . Fox Sports Amazon will be free to experiment with more digital - like ads during live NFL games this year . The same can be said for Google , as its fledgling YouTube TV streaming services reaches more market . In both cases , those companies control roughly two minutes of commercial time per hour . Hulu has long employed more web - like targeting when it delivers ads to people using its on - demand service . Going forward , as Hulu signs up people for its $ 40 per month 50-channel service , it will be able to play around with more digital ad tactics . Theoretically , these companies could leap ahead of Facebook as more web - like TV ad targeting evolves . Of course , Facebook is known for biding it 's time and then going big on an initiative . Some inside the social network have likened this to when the company planned its push into mobile a few years ago before quickly becoming a dominant mobile player . There 's a big difference of course between mobile , where Facebook controlled its own product , and TV , where it does not . TV is fundamentally a different business , one that can be unwelcoming to outsiders . " I think it 's gon na be hard , " said one ad tech executive . " People are scared of Facebook . "