Many an Australian has a vivid memory of sitting in a classroom without aircon during summer , trying to ignore the sweaty complaints about the weather from their pungent classmates .    After Kevin Rudd aroused media attention last week , funding for aircon in schools across Australia has become a hot topic for debate , particularly for areas dealing with low school budgets and government support .    To help schools fundraise for items like aircon , or more importantly educational resources , Sydney startup CommPow has developed an ecommerce platform directed at teachers and parents that donates a percentage of their purchases made through partner retailers towards their chosen school . Through an online platform which showcases both online and offline deals , Commpow helps buyers save on everyday essentials such as electronics , groceries , energy , finance and fitness . Based on the vendor , a small cut of each purchase will go directly to a school to help them finance resources and facilities . Helmed by Sam Lambooy , Alex Saros , and Matt King , CommPow was founded as a way to help the young entrepreneurs give back to the school community , particularly staff and parents , by providing them an accessible way to help improve a child 's education . " It 's not about redirecting where people spend their money , but rather giving them an option to spend more wisely while supporting their schools , " said Saros .   For Saros , who is also studying to become a secondary school teacher , developing the platform meant paving a way to ensure that every child has the best access to education . " This is a incidental way to ensure that children have access to resources and have a greater equality of resources too , across Australia , " said Saros . Spanning across multiple industries , the startup has partnered with brands such as Fitness First , Hotels Combined , Harvey Norman , Mortgage Support , Energy Australia and WhatIf to develop a bundle of deals across their product or service ranges . " We 're also in conversations with other vendors in the fuel , teleco , and food and grocery spaces , " said Lambooy . As for partnering schools , Lambooy said the business has worked its way towards onboarding over forty schools within the Broken Bay diocese , offering teachers and staff who go their access to the platform . " We all went to a college in Brookvale , which was one of the first to come on board . Then we used group buying powers . The larger amount of schools behind us , the bigger vendors and discounts we can negotiate , " he added . To help extend their reach further , the business has also partnered with Flexischools , an ecommerce platform , for in - school purchases such as uniforms , excursions , and canteen food . Lambooy said CommPow has also sided with AIME , an education program that supports Indigenous students , to help reach Indigenous schools and help them raise money for education . When a user signs up for a platform , they create an account by filling out basic details and selecting which school they 're connected to . Users can then access an online dashboard , with tabs that break the online products up into categories , much like a traditional ecommerce store . However , selecting on a particular brand takes users to a " co - branded portal " featuring all the available product deals , with Lambooy saying that users are able to save up to twenty five percent on a full - priced purchase .   " The dashboard also works with the vendor data to chart how much money a user 's saved , how much they 've contributed to the school , and how much the school 's raised in total , " said Lambooy . There are offline deals too , which Lambooy said currently serve local businesses such as cafes around the Manly area .   " The parents get either a physical or electronic membership card , that allows them to get discounts . The businesses pay a fee to appear on the platform , " said Saros .   With only Manly on the chart , Lambooy said the business will look to scale the " hyper - localised " side of the business across Australia .   A local merchant joining CommPow will pay a monthly fee following a three month trial period . This payment fee is then split equally between the startup and the local schools .   As for the online sales , Lambooy said the cut the startup and school receive varies based on the vendor . Often , CommPow will receive a referral fee from each purchase while is then split " fifty - fifty " with the business and the school . Although the platform is predominantly targeted at staff and parent purchases , Saros said CommPow will also work with schools who want to make larger scale purchases , working with partners such as Harvey Norman to get a school a cheaper price on laptops , for example .   Currently , the startup is bootstrapped by the three cofounders , with Lambooy saying they 're in discussions with investors at the moment to access seed funding . Lambooy added that he wants to see a strong social impact emerging from the platform , an impact which can then be used to pivot the business nationally .   " Growing for us means fostering relationships with schools , which takes time , and trust is a big factor . In a year or so , we 'll definitely look to how we can scale that impact , " he said .