Every tech trend piece relies on a few buzzwords -- the Internet of Things , Fintech , or blockchain , for instance . But over time , those terms become a little less relevant . Remember when we only listened to non - music audio on iPods ? We still have't come up with a better term for " podcasts . " In 2017 , tech trends are moving as fast as ever , and more than a few well - established bits of jargon are n't quite as useful as they used to be . Speaking as a frequent tech trend writer -- seriously , I just published one earlier today -- I 've managed to isolate a few examples . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Given that CES is this week , now seems like a great time to try redefining a few of the new year 's big tech concepts . Here 's a look at how two industry focuses are shifting in 2017 . The Internet of Things , or IoT , is a term that refers to internet - connected versions of daily household appliances like a smart fridge or a thermostat that connects to your smartphone . But reducing these improvements to their internet connection misses the biggest change coming up : AI . The replacement term , " intelligent things , " aims to describe devices that rely on AI as well as an internet connection to improve the services they provide . But do n't take my word for it . Here 's what the research firm Gartner had to say about it : " As intelligent things , such as drones , autonomous vehicles and smart appliances , permeate the environment , Gartner anticipates a shift from stand - alone intelligent things to a collaborative intelligent things model . " Jeremy Waite , Marketing Evangelist at Watson Marketing EMEA , offered the followng prediction in IDM 's 10 Key Marketing Trends for 2017 report . I covered it earlier , but the shift in terms is worth focusing on : " I believe that the smartest executives in 2017 will be more focused on making sense of the data they already have versus trying to capture more of it . The vast majority of organizations ( 88 percent by some accounts ) do n't even share their own customer data between their own sales and marketing departments , so this is the real battleground . Aim to find insights , behaviors and buying patterns in the data you have , rather than just trying to capture more leads and email addresses . " This shift highlights the direction that all user engagement is going in 2017 , from mobile to social media networks : Away from massive scale and towards a higher engagement with a specific , often niche community online . Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded .