startup pitches . Company : Hire . Bid . Headquarters : Washington DC . Founding Team : Founder and CEO , Neil Sandhu . Why we like it : Because it 's an auction ! Better prices , good bargains , plenty of options , fair play and the slight thrill of competition . What 's not to like ?   Okay , maybe sitting at your computing betting on the service of a professional is n't as thrilling as shouting out your bidding price in front of tens of people . Behind your screen there 's no pompous bidder eyeing you down . You 're the one in charge . You can quickly scroll through your options and pick out the best fit for your needs . Hire . Bid is an online marketplace connecting professionals with clients . Experienced professionals can auction off their available time to be bid on potential clients . When business get busy , companies lose talent and there 's extra work to be done , they can search through Hire . Bid for the ideal professional . It works for both parties . On the one side , a company finds a new worker . Yes we get it , it 's always a risk taking on new workers . Do they understand your business ? Do they share your vision ? Do they get your culture ? Are you on the same path ? However , Hire . Bid has a unique system that helps companies test drive professionals with short time blocks of work , rather than long - term commitment . Later down the track if it all works out , a client could potentially hire the professional for additional services or simply bid them adieu and search for a better fit . On the other side of the spectrum , if you have a few extra hours , have professional skills and are looking to further your experience , there 's no harm in trying . None at all actually . Not to your pocket and not to your time . It 's quick and free to post your professional profile and time blocks on the marketplace . Then all you need to do is wait to be hired . Hire . Bid charges a low commission only from the fees paid by a client to a professional on the marketplace . No job , no fees .   We know , the internet can be a little risky . Who knows who is on the other end . Apart from short term working blocks , Hire . Bid has a unique rating system that informs the client the level of service they are to expect from a professional in terms of their price value per hour .   