Ventureburn and Splash conducted an interview with The Foschini Group 's ( TFG ) CIO , Brent Curry , which revealed many insights into what TFG and startups are producing . It 's also particularly important to note his insights as they might be a way for entrepreneurs to bring their product to a large market . To date , TFG has partnered with tech startups such as Wumdrop and Pargo which brought about TFG 's Deliver 2 Me service while also allowing customers to choose a convenient collection point for their items . " We know that exceptional tech talent usually prefers working in the edgier startup space , rather than at a big corporate where their freedom and creativity is more likely to be stifled . So working with startups enables us to access that very scarce talent , " said Curry . " We are always focused on working with black - owned businesses as part of our enterprise development programme , " he continued . He also went on to explain how startups ' pricing in regards to their solution is attractive to big corporations such as TFG . Startups are also able to add new functionalities quicker compared to larger organisations . " We also explore opportunities with startups in the tech space , because they have innovative ideas and are fired up by their product or service . Often they are not market - ready , but their entrepreneurial spirit means they are open to Intellectual Property input from TFG to transform their concept into a real - world solution , " said Curry . Working in the startup sector means you 're probably more than likely to hear about the risks of working with big corporations . Which is why it 's refreshing to hear another perspective , that is , the risks big corporations face when dealing with startups . " We have no challenges per se , however being a big corporate we have a lot of governance and have to fill out all the right forms , but startups do n't want to work this way . So we drop some of these requirements , to ensure we get products out quicker as solutions , " said Curry . Read more : Banking on ecommerce growth in SA -- Q&A with The Foschini Group 's Brent Curry He adds that working with startups is somewhat of a calculated risk for big corporations . But TFG mitigates those risks by working closely with the startups during the development process . The partnership between TFG and tech startups is that of a symbiotic one . Curry mentioned that in certain cases the company would bring startups on site , providing them with office space . In return , the accompanied startups would provide TFG with their services . TFG would also offer IP to partnering startups . " Startups are not always business ready , but we understand how the business works and can identify the value proposition , " said Curry . The corporation not only provides startups with IP but also coaching and strategic input on how to price any products and services as well as how to commercialise any concepts . " In many cases , we 've even directed them to venture capitals and funding companies to grow their business , " said Curry . He elaborated on this aspect , using Wigroup as an example . TFG 's investing network helped Wigroup grow into a medium - sized business , according to Curry . Some might think that corporates steer clear of accelerators and tech hubs , but most C - level executives keep a close ear to the ground regarding startups . Read more : 10 defining moments that shaped the 2016 SA startup ecosystem " A friend chairs the Young Entrepreneur Organisation and will encourage me to meet with potential partners in the tech sector , " said Curry . C - level executives such as Curry also attend international and local tech conferences to find innovative startups . During a recent trip to Mobile World Congress held in Barcelona , Curry managed to find attractive startups . " We made many connections and we will be trialling some of those potential solutions , as they are looking to partner with companies like TFG to take their product to market , " he said . TFG also hosts a DevFest in the IT sector . The corporate would pose a problem which the developers would try and solve . The company then awards a monetary prize for the team with the best solution . Curry went on to say that the DevFest is open to both internal staff as well as outside participants . The partnership programme is currently undergoing changes , with more effort being put into TFG 's ecommerce site . The corporation is also looking into including mobile wallets for customers , said Curry . His final thoughts drifted toward Cape Town being a key player in Africa 's startup scene . " Cape Town is a great incubator for startups because the universities and other training institutions put out really good talent . Cape Town is also home to a number of large corporations , with the retail sector primarily based in the city so you do n't need to move to Johannesburg to work in this space . "