There is much to debate about the growth of Australia 's startup ecosystem , but it is a truth almost universally ( well , in Australia , at least ) acknowledged that the local fintech sector is doing well , bolstered by government support and corporate involvement . While most startups look to develop sophisticated products and services to tackle problems across every niche imaginable in the sector for savvy local consumers and companies , Perth fintech Peppermint Innovation thought there were significant opportunities to be found with those entirely new to banking . Founded by brothers Chris and Anthony Kain , who grew up in the small town of Narrogin , the company is providing mobile remittance services to the unbanked - those without a bank account - in the Philippines . Statistics show that around 70 percent of the almost 100 million - strong population in the Philippines is unbanked , for a number of reasons ; as Chris explained , some people do n't have enough ID to open an account , while the fact that the country is made up of thousands of islands , many of them rural , has also meant it 's difficult for banks to open enough branches to reach everyone . " Filipino cities present their own challenges . Some cities have 20 or 25 million people . While a bank branch might seem close geographically , traffic and public transport make it extremely difficult to get around the country . Paying your bills or going to the bank in person can take all day , and not everyone can afford to take that time off work , " he added . According to BusinessWorld , 2014 survey of 18,000 Filipino households found that the foremost reason cited by households for not having a deposit account was not having enough money to keep an account , with service fees or minimum deposits too high for some to afford ; a number of respondents also stated that they did not like dealing with financial entities , with trust in institutions low . Of course , relying on cash can lead to its own problems , with Chris pointing to data from the World Bank that found people who use cash only can lose up to 25 percent a year through misplacement or theft . " Relying on cash also prevents people from accessing loans which can help build small businesses and build the economy , and this is especially relevant for women , to whom 90 percent of microfinance lending is made , " Chris said . That 's where Peppermint comes in . The brothers in 2014 had travelled to the Philippines to look at TelUPay International , a mobile banking app whose developers had spent $ 9.5 million to deploy it through banks . " Long story short , the company was falling over , and the shareholders who had money in this company were going to get nothing back ; not to mention , their entire team was going to be out of a job , " Chris said . " And after all of that , this great idea , this great platform , would be just flapping loose . Well , we knew immediately that we had to take it on . " Taking on the team , Peppermint began to work on the creation of a platform that could provide the same basic services as the existing app to those without bank accounts . The result is MyWeps , a mobile remittance platform . " The idea is that the consumer can go to an agent , give them cash , and the agent then pays from their account to the payee , who might be an individual or a company . You can use it to pay bills or transfer money between people , " Chris explained . The remittance model is a popular one in the Philippines , with a number of services in particular set up to allow people to collect from an agent or collection centre money sent by relatives overseas ; these relatives can also pay their family 's bills . Focusing on the local market , Peppermint 's ' agents ' are sent to homes around the country , providing bill payments services to people without bank accounts across the Philippines . As well as a partnership with agent service 1Bro Global , which has 90,000 agents across the country , Peppermint recently partnered with Metro Gas Sales , a domestic gas bottle delivery company , to have its delivery drivers become Peppermint agents , enabling them to take payments from the customers they visit for a variety of household bills . Peppermint takes a small percentage fee on each transaction , paid by the consumer . This model can work , Chris believes , because while 70 million people in the Philippines do n't have a bank account , most have a mobile phone . " If you do n't have a bank account , your options for cashless transactions are really limited . Mobile wallets do exist , but most of these platforms require you to have a bank account , so these products just are n't accessible , " he said . " We learned fast that an agent model actually improved things , and created financial inclusion . A middleman actually made the service more convenient and accessible for a lot of people who might not have a smartphone yet , or who have mobile internet access in town but not at their home . It also creates accountability , a face , a representative to talk to if issues come up , which makes the service safer to use . " Of course , Peppermint also operates more ' traditional ' online banking apps for banks in the Philippines , currently being used by Metropolitan Bank and Trust , UnionBank , and UCPB . The company 's growth was pushed along by its ASX listing in December 2015 , a route Chris said he and brother Anthony took over venture capital as they were " attracted to the financial reporting discipline , the corporate governance regime and the continuous disclosure obligations required by the ASX " . With a foothold in the Philippines , the business is now looking to expand into other markets across Southeast Asia , with Bangladesh at the top of the list . Despite the growth of the fintech sector in markets like Australia and the US , Chris said Peppermint is happy " providing a real , tangible service that generates revenue " . " This is n't brand new tech , there 's other mobile payment operators around the world and we understand that . This would n't excite Silicon Valley , but our results are tangible and we 're making a difference in a market that requires it . "