The tributes are flowing for Pollenizer , with the pioneering incubator yesterday telling staff and investors that it will officially be pulling up stumps in June . The Australian Financial Review reported that the decision to close was made as the organisation faced the fact it had not been able to find a sustainable business model .   Pollenizer was founded in 2007 by Phil Morle and Mick Liubinskas , at the time Australia 's first incubator . Over the last few years , however , it had shifted to consulting and running workshops for larger organisations . The news comes just a few weeks after Pollenizer announced a new partnership with fintech company Pepper Money to launch a new incubator program . However , it seems the shift to consulting was n't sitting well with the team , the company having moved too far from its original entrepreneurial focus .   Phil Morle , cofounder and chief executive of Pollenizer , told the AFR that while Pollenizer could have " continued indefinitely " as a boutique consulting business , everyone on the team is motivated to " do something huge and change the world somehow " .   He said , " In the end we just could n't see the path to that , and now the important thing for me is that the amazing team around me get to move on and do amazing things . " The company will shut down at the end of the financial year ; according to the AFR it has been sizing down from 22 staff for a while in order to retain enough capital to assist its remaining group of startups - Lawpath , HiveXchange , Mezo , CohortIQ , and Spot - as planned . The challenge of finding a strong business model is one that Pollenizer was staring down for quite some time , with Morle explaining to Business Insider in 2013 that thought the organisation was bringing in $ 3 million in revenue , there was next to no profit . According to Morle , revenue barely covered Pollenizer 's operational costs , with the organisation providing office space and design , mentoring , and accounting services to its startups at cost price . The impending closure of Pollenizer raises the question of what a sustainable model looks like for incubator and accelerator programs , the number of which is seemingly growing every day . For corporate - driven Slingshot , sustainability has come thanks to the corporate partners is joins up with to run industry - specific programs .   Cofounder Craig Lambert told Startup Daily last year , " We would n't run an open accelerator without that corporate involvement because that monetisation allows you to run a much more significant program . We pay mentors , we can put on better events , and we can invest a lot of that corporate money back into the startups . " With Liubinskas having left his day to day role at Pollenizer to join Telstra - backed accelerator program muru - D , Morle told the AFR he is now considering his next steps and hunting for his " moonshot project " , with the commercialisation of a software platform developed at Pollenizer a potential option . Pollenizer has been contacted for further comment .