In the midst of a chaotic week filled with overdue invoices and overflowing calendar invites , staying organised is not easy . Helping businesses navigate the chaos are a shelf of project management tools , a space mostly dominated by industry heavyweights like Asana and Trello . Another startup looking to enter the space is Avaza , a platform which looks to offer a cheaper , feature - packed alternative focused on helping medium businesses ( SMBs ) complete service - based work . As described by Avaza 's founder , Tim Kremer , the platform looks to be an " all - in - one solution " helping SMBs run their more efficiently . In particular , the platform offers tools for time tracking , expense reporting , quoting , invoicing and project management in one integrated product . Founded in 2014 , the integration - focused philosophy worked strongly for the startup , as it steadily grew without external funding from one user to serving roughly 15,000 across 150 countries , growth which Kremer credited to mindful budgeting and cost - free marketing methods . " We 've bootstrapped since inception . We believe if you can go as long as you can without seeking funding you 'll get a much better return on investment at whatever stage you do decide to sell equity . It 's something that 's also given us creative control over the business and helped take it in the direction we wanted , " he said . Kremer , who previously worked in the software consulting industry for 10 years , had first imagined Avaza following issues he was experiencing regarding collaboration and time - tracking while completing service work . " Often we found that collaborating on the projects and tracking our time then getting paid for that work was onerous , in that you 'd have lots of different systems being used all at once . There was [ also ] no way for your clients and yourself to see how productive the projects were and whether they were on track , " he said . Banding together with cofounder Behram Khan , former Head of Software at Channel 7 , the pair identified that these issues pertained to service - based work across all industries , opening the possibility to develop a profitable and relevant digital solution . Growing the startup at first was a " slow and steady " process according to Kremer , who said that Avaza faced the arduous challenge of going up against the aforementioned project management giants like Trello and Asana . Acknowledging the similarities between the existing solutions and Avaza , Kremer differentiated the platform at the point of it " going deep " into solving a business 's problem . " They 're generalist tools , " he said . " For example they 'll stop at basic task tracking , and do n't integrate a lot of the features that service businesses need , and that 's a massive portion of the economy . [ For example ] they do n't offer time tracking and invoicing features that these companies require . " Discussing the solutions in the market that do offer these features , Kremer said they 're typically " large products available only to really large companies " , costing a significant amount and requiring a steep learning curve . Avaza , he said , wants to be the more affordable and accessible option . " We 've tried to re - invent that technology for SMBs with a design that 's really easy to pick up and use . They start with utilisation reports , billable and unbillable time , profitability reports and whether a customer project was financially worth it or not . They 're the sort of tools that help you grow your business . " Sticking to a bootstrapped budget , the startup grew its customer base through listing on a number of " free marketplaces " , a move which the founder accounted to helping Avaza gain relevant exposure for no cost . " I think this comes back to bootstrapping , you want to get as many customers as possible without spending money , " he said . " And if you can encourage your customers to leave a few comments or ratings , you can elevate yourself in those stores for free and generate traffic that way . " When first accessing the Avaza platform , businesses are able to access a quick ' getting started ' tutorial to guide them through the essential functions , such as completing timesheets . Each component , including time tracking , invoicing and project management , is then split into separate spaces , like tabs , to avoid clutter . Similar to other project management tools in the market , the platform is able to integrate with a number of plugins , currently accessible to over 700 in the market such as accounting softwares syncs and calendar tools . Listing Avaza on global marketplaces meant the startup began accumulating global clients , something which Kremer said the business anticipated from the get - go by including international accessibility during development . This means Avaza supports multiple currencies and various freight exchange rates , as well as different language and number formatting . Having kept mostly in " stealth mode " so far , Kremer said the startup is now looking to get its name out there to facilitate growth , after deciding that the product had evolved to a strong point . The startup is now aiming to grow its local and international customer base through marketing and PR efforts while continuing to build outs its product .