One of the most anticipated competitions of the year in the Southwest for startups is Venture Madness , taking place March 8 - 10 . Venture Madness brings the innovation of startups with the expertise of successful entrepreneurs by pitting 64 startups against each other in a bracket elimination - style competition to see which one is the most successful . The 16 finalists went to Scottsdale , Arizona , for a three - day live - demo event in front of hundreds of guests and elite judges in an all - out business brawl . The winners were given the chance to receive $ 300,000 in investment from regional investors as well as a portion of a $ 20,000 cash prize . It 's not all about winning , though . Founders in the tournament had the chance to network with other startup entrepreneurs , as well as connect with potential mentors and business leaders . As we know , this type of networking and connecting can jumpstart an entrepreneur 's success . The judges for the competition included Reddit CEO Steve Huffman , Internet Entrepreneur Justin Kan , Zenefits CEO Jay Fulcher , Cruise Automation COO Daniel Kan , and Next Level Associates Partner Bernee Strom . Huffman said Venture Madness plays an important role in the startup community : " It 's really exciting to see startups flourishing outside of the Valley . Events like Venture Madness are necessary opportunities for entrepreneurs to get the practice and feedback necessary for pitching their ideas -- one of the most important things is getting those ideas out there , " he said . If you 're interested in getting to know this Southwest startups competing for such a hefty prize , check them out below : AniCell extends the ACTIVE life of animals by recycling amniotic material to create an all - natural regenerative treatment for veterinarians to treat tissue related injuries in animals .   Clean Router is a wifi router that filters the internet for parents who want to keep their kids safe online . Unlike software filters that you have to configure individually per device the Clean Router automatically filter the Internet at the source with 1 simple device . The Ultimate Parental Control ! Tellspec Ltd. is a company with a mission to help create a clean food revolution by providing the most relevant and accurate information about what is in food . We offer real - time , reliable , non - destructive , hand - held food analysis .   A podcasting platform that allows anyone to become a podcaster with practically no technical knowledge , by using our simple to use mobile app or web app .   Clean Router won first place as Venture Madness Champion , winning $ 10,000 . AniCell won second and received $ 5,000 . Clean Router and AniCell , along with ClicData and eSalesDash , both not originally in the top four , were considered for the $ 300,000 investment pool . Read more about startups in Phoenix here on Tech . Co