Pibo and Cubroid are friends . In a country where three giant conglomerates ( LG , Samsung and Hyundai ) suck up most of the engineering talent , these two pint - sized little robots could be the future of Korean hardware innovation . Pibo is a 3-D - printed , Raspberry Pi - based " family companion " that can use the internet to answer questions about your world . Cubroid is a bunch of robotic blocks that help kids learn how to program using physical objects . The two are part of a small club of companies in Korea 's new startup scene , which is dominated by software and services . In a presentation , consultant Nathan Millard of G3 Partners says there 's been a massive upswing in the number of Korean startups in the past five years , with more than 20 accelerators , a vibrant investment scene and major government support . When I visited the startups behind Pibo and Cubroid , I found a new Digital Media City ( DMC ) by the old World Cup stadium featuring towers stuffed with dozens of small startup companies .   The biggest challenge , it seems , is global breakout . Of the 46 startups that DMC 's Yu Bae Park told me he helps manage , only about 10 percent are currently looking at markets outside Korea . Millard points out that " of Korea 's recent standout successes ... none have found success beyond Korea . " Korean tech firms other than the big three have tended to develop primarily for their own market -- Korea has its own analogues of Google ( Naver ) , Facebook / WhatsApp ( Kakao ) and various other services -- and they do n't tend to think or speak globally . That 's changing , too , though . The Pibo and Cubroid guys , while unpolished and thoroughly engineer - driven , have their eyes set on the global market , and even on the U.S. One thing about being in a small scene is that everyone knows each other . Cubroid 's Mark Shin showed me a Javascript book written by Pibo 's Jonggun Park and said he wanted to use Pibo 's big - data AI system in the future . That 's the kind of cross - pollination a startup scene could use to succeed . Pibo is clearly one of DMC 's darlings . It 's made by Circulus , which is led by Jonggun Park , a former Samsung engineer who was working on IoT and big data projects when he became convinced that the way to push Korea forward was to teach everyone to code . " I think that if everyone could make their own programs in Korea , then our country will be stronger , " he said . Coding eventually became robots because , well , " most guys love robots . " Coding robots thus became Pibo : an open - source , Raspberry Pi - based , 3-D - printed home robot with its own cloud - based system , where you can code it through a block language , use JavaScript or download features that other people have written . Pibo is an adorable robot from a Korean startup which is designed to be a family home companion . A post shared by Sascha Segan ( @saschasegan ) on Mar 22 , 2017 at 11:18am PDT " We will provide our own functions for families , but everyone can add their own ideas for programming , share their ideas and download other peoples ' ideas too , " Park said . Pibo 's demo reel shows the little bot being a home and family companion . Pibo plays soothing music , asks about your emotions and takes notes to relay to other family members . It has personality . The coolest thing about Pibo is n't the hardware . It 's the AI platform . Remember , Park started out as an AI engineer . Pibo 's platform scrapes Google and the Korean services Naver and Kakao , and mixes in news sources such as The New York Times and BBC News , trying to fit queries to web data the way Google Assistant does . The company also plans to integrate the Alexa API and let Pibo use Alexa skills . So when I asked Pibo what she thinks of Donald Trump , she gave a consensus based on the contents of Korean blogs . ( They do n't much like him . ) Google Home and Alexa are trying to do this as well , of course , but the extra twist for Pibo is that she 's mobile . She 's not very mobile -- she 's slow , and only has about two hours of battery life when she 's on the move . But she can amble around a table using her camera to do video calls with various people sitting there , for instance . Pibo 's heart is a Raspberry Pi 2 . Park said they 'd like to use a Pi 3 or Pi 4 , but the 2 is the right price to keep the robot under $ 500 . " I want an intelligent robot for everyone , so we focused our price , " he said . The idea here is to let everyone do the level of DIYing they want . Are you hardcore ? Circulus has uploaded the whole thing to Thingiverse , a repository of 3-D printing codes . Just want a cuddly home companion ? It 'll cost under $ 500 when it goes on Kickstarter in September . You know those guys who can sort of do everything ? Mark Jaekwang Shin ( below , right ) is one of those guys . He 's a lawyer . He programs . He has an MBA . But right now he 's living off some money his brother - in - law lent him and funding from various Korean seed funds and prizes , in a cluttered little office at the top of a slightly run - down building halfway to the Seoul airport , miles from the DMC startup hub .   Shin has three daughters , ages 11 , 8 and 5 , and he wants them all to code . So he came up with a set of configurable Lego - like blocks that can be programmed either with a smartphone app ( because it 's impossible to get the kids off their phones , he says ) , or with the popular educational language MIT Scratch . " The future of education is very interesting to me , " he said . " I wanted to get [ my 11-year - old ] to code , using something like a robot . " ( Me too . ) The Scratch connection is what drew me to Cubroid , because my daughter is into Scratch . It 's not just a language , it 's also an unusually positive , reinforcing and safe online community for kids : Club Penguin for li'l coders . Cubroid 's office is a mess of boxes of little Lego - like cubes , naked circuit boards and one set of shelves with every other educational robot they could think of , for inspiration . The Cubroid blocks , two years in the making , snap together just like Lego . A prototype first generation used magnets , but a snap - together toy is safer , Shin said .   There are 10 different cubes : a knob ; proximity , light and touch sensors ; two motors ; an LED light grid ; a buzzer , a " master " cube and dummy spacer cubes . Each functional block has its own little battery , which charges via MicroUSB . They 're color - coded by function : green and red for functions , blue for the master cube and orange for spacers . The master cube communicates with a smartphone via Bluetooth or a PC via USB , and then communicates with sub - cubes using a proprietary wireless protocol Cubroid developed . You can also plug the master cube into a PC using micro - USB . Shin and his two staffers quickly put together a wobbly little robot with an LED smiley face which tried to clomp across the floor , and another giant kaiju - like thing that ended up being so heavy , he needed to replace the motor blocks with a newer version that had more torque . Cubroid robot blocks , made by a Korean startup , can be programmed through their own app or using the popular Scratch kids ' coding environment . A post shared by Sascha Segan ( @saschasegan ) on Mar 22 , 2017 at 11:22am PDT The idea here is to balance simplicity and extensibility . Lego Mindstorms lets you build and program with Scratch , but it 's very fiddly . Other robots like Dash and Dot , Anki Cosmo and Ozobot are easier to use , but are fixed hardware . Cubroid is extensible , but extremely easy to put together . On a white board , they 've scribbled ideas for the next round of cubes : a camera , an MP3 player , an OLED screen . Shin said they 're developing an Amazon Alexa - compatible block and a face - recognition block , and they 're talking to the Pibo folks about connecting to Pibo 's cloud - based system . " In the future , like LittleBits , there could be different kits , " he said .   Cubroid 's next step is to go to the big - league Kickstarter for manufacturing cash , probably sometime this fall . I 'm normally super skeptical about Kickstarter , but I know this is n't vaporware and these guys are for real . They just can , right now , only afford to make lots of 300 at a time . " When the Kickstarter money comes , we can make more , " he said . And they do n't seem to be having manufacturing problems . Both Pibo and Cubroid show the advantage of starting a new hardware company in a country that actually , you know , builds hardware . There 's a certain U.S. Kickstarter narrative that I call " Heart of Darkness , " involving U.S. hardware companies that basically get eaten by a predatory China supply chain . Shin 's building his robots in Korea . He 's Korean . He speaks Korean . This could work . I hope it does . Then we in the U.S. might be hearing more about Korean tech than just LG , Samsung and Hyundai .