At its education event in New York City today , Microsoft announced a new edition of its latest operating system : Windows 10 S. Available on first - party and third - party hardware -- Microsoft will be releasing its own Windows 10 S device and will also let manufacturers sell their own -- Windows 10 S is a streamlined edition of Windows 10 aimed at the education market . Microsoft partners will begin offering PCs running Windows 10 S this summer , starting at $ 189 , and Microsoft will also ship its own Surface Laptop running Windows 10 S , starting at $ 999 , on June 15 . The main way that Windows 10 S differs from the other editions is that it can only run apps from the Windows Store . That includes Universal Windows Platform ( UWP ) apps and Win32 apps that Microsoft has accepted into its app store . Not coincidentally , Microsoft is bringing Office to the Windows Store . The goal is to avoid the problems of traditional Win32 apps that often run in the background and push their own updates . Microsoft wants to stop apps from hooking into the boot and sign - in process to handle all their own updates , which in turn slows down startup time . Windows Store can take care of this today , but Windows 10 S makes it the only way to install and update apps . As a result , Microsoft hopes Windows 10 S will be able to offer faster sign - in times ( about 15 seconds ) and better battery life .   Terry Myerson , executive vice president for Microsoft 's Windows and Devices Group , demoed Windows 10 S on stage . He showed how users are blocked from installing apps from the web ( pictured above ) ; how much faster Windows 10 S sign - in is compared to Windows 10 Pro , which has many apps in the boot process ; and how schools can manage hundreds of devices . For example , teachers can preload software using only a USB key . This is still a full version of Windows 10 . It 's just locked down to only work with apps that Microsoft has approved , similar to how Apple and Google lock down iOS and Android to their respective app stores . Windows 10 S also differs in two other ways . It is cloud - manageable ( Windows 10 Home is not , but Pro is ) through Microsoft 's Intune , Intune for Education , and other modern management systems . It also sets up OneDrive cloud syncing by default , whereas other editions allow the user to skip this step and opt out of using OneDrive . Here 's the picture Microsoft is trying to paint for schools . You have a 45-minute class . Your students need to be able to sign in on a device they did n't use yesterday . The login process gets all their content , reliably and quickly . You do n't sit there waiting five minutes for your kids to log in . The devices need to last all day ( no battery dying in 7th period ) . Lastly , the devices need to be easy to manage so you can install and update apps effortlessly . For the record , the " S " in Windows 10 S does not stand for " student . " It refers to Windows being more streamlined and secure and having superior performance . It 's the same idea as the Xbox One S -- Windows 10 S is the core essence of Windows . Myerson called it the " soul " of today 's Windows . The reason Microsoft is n't using the word " student " in the name is pretty simple : Although Windows 10 S is clearly aimed at this group , the company does n't want to pigeon - hole it . Microsoft is hoping non - students buy Windows 10 S devices as well . If they find it inadequate , they can always upgrade . Windows 10 S will be easily upgradeable to Windows 10 Pro via the Windows Store . For educators , the upgrade is free . For end users and businesses , the cost is $ 49 . Schools running earlier Windows Pro editions can move to Windows 10 S for free . This means running a later version of Windows , but they have to be okay with limiting their devices to only Windows Store apps . Windows 10 S is Microsoft 's answer to Google 's Chrome OS , and even Apple 's iPad push in schools . Myerson did n't mention the latter , but he did knock Chromebooks a few times onstage . This will be a fierce battle as tech giants strive to have students taught on their own platforms -- get them young and you could win them over for life .