With an HTC Vive strapped to my head , I looked toward a wall in the hotel room and saw a person - shaped image . Back in reality , a Vayyar employee was stepping side to side in the bathroom . I was able to track his movements from the other room . To put it bluntly , I was seeing through walls . Out of all the things I saw at CES , Vayyar 's technology may be the most impactful . The Israeli company 's sensors use radio frequency signals to create 3-D scans . As the electromagnetic waves bounce off an object , it creates the data for the sensor . For example , the company used its 3-D imaging sensor Walabot to scan a demonstration wall . As the phone - like device was slowly swept side to side , an image on a nearby screen showed where the pipes hidden behind it were . It could also see inside the wall as a mouse ran from one side to the other . That 's useful for construction and pest extermination .   The technology was originally developed as a safer , less intrusive and relatively inexpensive way to detect cancerous tissue in breasts . " This device will change a lot , " said Raviv Melamed , Vayyar 's founder and CEO . " We were going for this one thing and we realized it could be used for much more . That 's unique for a startup . Usually they go in one direction . " Vayyar holds patents for its technology and plans to make money off licensing it . It also sells its sensor chips to other companies -- about 200 have bought it so far -- who will install them in their products . The company has partnered with Samsung and other large companies , but those deals are under wraps , said Melamed , who previously worked with radars in the Israel Defense Forces and later at Intel 's wireless division . " What Qualcomm did with cellular , we want to do with imaging , " he said . The company , which employs 50 people and has raised $ 34 million , plans to focus on smart home technology this year . That includes security , elder care and health monitoring . Another demonstration I witnessed was a Vayyar employee go from standing to lying on the bathroom floor . A sensor on the wall immediately started beeping . As Melamed points out , this is a way to have peace of mind as older people take showers while protecting their privacy , because there 's no camera .   In another test , I laid on a bed while a sensor hung from the ceiling . I was told to breath normally , which was visible on a nearby monitor . I then drew a deep breath and held it , which caused my image on the monitor to disappear . Vayyar said its sensor , which detects the tiny movements of the lungs , could be used to diagnose sleep apnea . A cleaning robot connected to a Vayyar sensor was able to detect the difference between a door frame and a cable . When it encountered the latter , the robot knew not to go any further . While Vayyar had all the aforementioned uses on display for me , the company has put its technology out to the maker community to find even more uses for its sensor . One of those suggested uses was for fisherman to scan their catches for eggs ( which can be made into caviar ) . This approach goes hand in hand with Melamed 's top advice for entrepreneurs . Stephen J. Bronner is news director of Entrepreneur.com . He occasionally writes about technology , video games , food and fitness .