When coworking spaces first came on the scene , they met some very basic needs for entrepreneurs and their teams . They provided another option for those who could not afford to independently lease or purchase office space under typically long term contracts . These hive - like spaces were often bare bones and humble , but they did the job . They helped startups move out of garages and basements into real office spaces . While this created a much needed legitimacy , needs have changed and the folks who run coworking spaces have done an amazing job of rising to the challenge of meeting the new customer needs . If you haven't looked into the coworking spaces that are local to you , please do so . You will be amazed at the communities being formed and the good that is being done . For startups in particular , these things are really exciting . Startups and others understand the bonus of being involved in a great neighborhood . They know that this appeals both to potential clients and employees . After all , great location means safety , being in proximity to great restaurants , good parking , and more . Anyone can rent out a small office space . The point of coworking spaces is to offer something more . These spaces , ideally , are designed to foster communities . When done well , they are places that people want to work at , because of the amenities provided that are supportive and create a vibrant and social space . For instance , ATX Factory coworking space , located in East Austin , TX , offers sleep pods for quick naps for folks who need to recharge , weekly food truck events , communal areas where members can relax such as massage chairs , and a snacks , coffee , and beer bar that boasts a Willie Nelson & Biggie mural . In fact , they even offer up a social membership for entrepreneurs seeking out opportunities to to participate in events and mingle with other community members People who are attracted to coworking spaces tend to be edgy , creative , risk takers . They are designers , architects , coders , and innovators . These are n't your typical buttoned down office workers who would fit in at an office park in suburbia . This is why these spaces are often located in funky neighborhoods , and why they are often in   unusual spaces and decorated with unique artwork . They provide a workspace for those who would n't   necessarily fit in elsewhere . Even more importantly , many of these spaces specifically cater to certain groups . For example , Hera Hub is a coworking space and business accelerator with locations all over the world . The spaces it provides along with the amenities offered are specifically designed with women in mind . They offer spa inspired work environments , and give women the opportunity to work with and among other inspirational entrepreneurs . The best coworking spaces offer a variety of membership options . These begin with communal memberships that include access to lounges , event attendance , and use of communal office equipment . At the other end of the spectrum are memberships that include full office space with keyed office . Some even offer store fronts . This means that as startups grow , their chosen coworking spaces can grow with them . By choosing communal workspaces , startups avail themselves of the benefits of great office infrastructure , amazing locations , growth potential , and the opportunity to network with other like minded entrepreneurs . These cost - effective options will only continue to become more popular in the future .