Search Engine Optimization ( SEO ) continues to be one of those areas of business that still puzzles entrepreneurs , both new and established , across the web . However , this is n't because there 's lack of information about it . On the contrary , there is far too much information floating around and , unfortunately a lot of it is false .   And the most damaging notion that keeps making appearances is that SEO is dead and that any investment in this strategy is a waste of resources . This could n't be more wrong . It is understandable for new businesses looking to save money to fall quickly for such misinformed baits . With SEO being a relatively invisible tool and slow manifesting resource , it 's an easy target . This is especially true for tech oriented companies , particularly in countries like India , where despite the recent digital revolution , there are pockets where proliferation of awareness is still limited . SEO , however , is not dead . In fact , it 's much more robust and essential in the present marketing and business landscape across the world . Here are three of the most important reasons why you should make a wise and conscious investment in SEO , irrespective of the kind of company you are : It does n't matter whether you 're an ecommerce company , a tech startup or a spa ; chances are people are going to Google before opting for your services . It 's not just a matter of how well reviewed your services are . It 's about being found when someone searches online for the services you offer . Organic search traffic matters and it matters a lot . An intelligent , well thought out strategy , coupled with great user experience is bound to get you a higher traffic and in turn , a larger number of potential business leads . SEO is essential if you want to stay ahead of an increasingly aware and evolving competition . Investment in SEO may not seem to give you immediate returns . But it is an essential long term investment that you must make , if you want to stay in the game . Compared to most business investments , ROI with respect to your investments in SEO takes time to become apparent . But do n't get thrown off by the seemingly expensive upfront costs that SEO demands , because in the long run , SEO has been known to provide a fairly good ROI . These techniques are your gateway to a better organic search traffic , referral traffic , much higher visibility , and a viable brand reputation . And the best part is , if you continue to invest in SEO , the value it generates does n't remain static . It keeps growing and compounding across all verticals that it impacts One of the reasons why the whole " SEO is dead " thing keeps popping up now and again is because search engines like Google are evolving at a break neck speed . They 're getting better at evaluating content quality and user experience ; not mention their increasingly sophisticated ranking systems that seem to eliminate the possibility of gaming the system . The point is , none of this means search engine optimization is dead . These techniques continue to remain sound and effective . In fact , with the proliferation of alternative digital devices like mobile and change in user behavior , it has become more relevant than ever . However , one needs to understand that SEO in the current context can not and will not work as a throwaway tool . There has to be a consolidated strategy where SEO techniques are aligned with good , useful content and great user experience .   