In the current climate , it 's not easy to get a job . Whereas candidates used to be able to lock down a position with a solid resume and a charismatic smile , current applicants are put through arduous tests and stressful interviews just to be told they are n't a good fit . However , while most industries are experiencing an overabundance of talent , one sector is still in need of quality employees : software development . According to the State of Software Development in 2017 report from Coding Sans , the biggest challenge startups are facing in software development is hiring talent . Considering the need for software developers and the notable lack of candidates in this field , this problem is to be expected . So how can you fix it ? Fortunately , Coding Sans provides some solutions to this all too common issue . " The most popular way to overcome this challenge is to hire a head hunter or agency and also to use professional connections to get talent on board , " wrote the authors of the study . " Another way is to allocate more time for hiring and posting job offers on job websites . " Why are these positions so hard to fill ? The study , which surveyed 126 people working at startups , that it takes on average a little more than seven weeks to recruit a quality software developer . That , in so many words , is a very long time , especially in the startup world . The study also showed that startups value past experience over everything else when hiring a software developer , followed by culture fit and test / side projects . Building a team is hard enough as it is . Interviews take time and resources , training is a complicated and exhausting process , and tragically enough , new employees do n't always work out . When you add the complication of a small talent pool to choose from , and the burden can often be too much to bare , especially for budding startups that need all the resources they can get . If you want to check out the rest of the study , you can download it here . If you 're interested in finding out what other challenges startups are facing in software development , check out the graph below from the Coding Sans .   Read more about software development here on Tech . Co