Founded in 2000 by Benchmark Capital in Silicon Valley , Balderton became fully independent in 2007 as a UK firm investing in early - stage and internet startup companies primarily in Europe . Balderton invests between PS775,000 to PS15 million per investment and manages approximately PS1.8 billion with most of the capital coming from university endowments , charitable foundations and pension funds . Notable investments include Kobalt , Bebo , Citymapper , Wonga and Magic Pony . Launched in 1991 , SEP has made over 150 investments with more than 110 exits . With offices in London , Glasgow and Edinburgh , the firm invests in a mix of energy , healthcare , and technology companies . SEP currently has six funds under the management of 40 employees . The firm invests up to PS20 million in high growth technology companies and currently holds 35 high growth portfolio companies . Investments include Cyberhawk , SolarCentury and Skyscanner . The VC firm invests primarily during the seed and growth stage from PS214,000 to PS13 million per company . The London , Menlo Park and Berlin offices invest in marketplaces , e - commerce , software , mobile apps and digital media sectors . DN Capital holds 55 investments with 16 exits across eight countries and specialises in assisting US companies to the European market . Notable investments include Shazam , Hppn and Seedcamp . Founded in 2002 the London - based firm manages PS600 million and attempts to generate investment returns through social and environmental challenges . Bridge Ventures uses Sustainable Growth Funds , Property Funds and Social Sector Funds for a sustainable and impact investment strategy . Investments include Wholebake , The Hoxton and dementia resource Unforgettable.org . With PS200 million to invest , BGF is the largest UK - focused venture fund and currently holds PS2.5 billion in investments across UK technology companies . BGF invests between PS1 to PS6 million and strives to support the growth of new companies rather than placing main importance on investment return . Investments include Boost Juice Bars , Gymbox and Pureprint . The firm has been backing early - stage , high growth companies since 2000 with PS160 million currently under management . The MMC team themselves have invested over PS11 million under the same terms as their investors . Typical investments are up to PS3 million in the first round and PS5 to PS7 million over time . Gousto , Love Home Swap and Hubbub are amongst their portfolio . The team has been focusing on technology companies across physical , social and commercial industries since 1997 . Over 90 young companies have been funded and supported over this time . Investments include GreenRoad , Improbable , Think Tank , Travelstart , Cambridge Broadband Networks and Inotec . Connect Ventures invests in early stage internet and mobile startups along with digital media businesses . Founded in 2012 , the investment size ranges from PS300,000 to PS600,000 . The London - based firm has 24 investments in 19 companies across Europe . The portfolio includes investments in Citymapper , Curve and Secret Sales . A PS31 million firm investing in early stage technology with a particular interest in internet , mobile and software startups . They invest from PS193,000 in seed money to PS1.5 million in a lead round . With 43 founders backed since launch in 2013 , notable investments include Deliveroo , Mainframe , Babylon Health and Australian tour website Tourradar . Founded in 2006 by Skype co - founder Niklas Zennstrom , the global firm has made over 50 investment across four continents . Headquarters are in London with offices in Beijing , Tokyo , Sao Paulo , and Istanbul . Atomico has a total of 80 investments in 54 companies including Skype , Rovio , Farmdrop , Quipper and US based Jawbone . Nearly PS5 billion is currently under management for over 50,000 customers . Octopus invests in smaller companies across Europe and the US . Founded in 1999 the investment size is between PS25,000 and PS25 million . Investments are across many sectors and include companies Magic Pony , GymBox , Hubbub and Zoopla Property Group .    A leading web and mobile investment fund based in the UK with an investment triangle between offices in London , Dublin and Edinburgh . The firm invests up to PS400,000 in seed rounds and between PS200,000 and PS1 million in Series A rounds . Since 2012 EC1 has made a total of 27 investments in 25 companies including Hypaship , Twizoo , Tailster and Evvnt . Albion Ventures was set up in 1996 . It oversees nine Venture Capital Trusts with about PS450 million under management .   Albion also manages the UCL Technology Fund and provides management services to Albion Community Power PLC and Albion Care Communities , with a focus on technology , health and energy investments .   Eden invests in high growth European technology companies with a focus on the big data analytics , cloud computing , digital media , enterprise software , fintech , internet , mobile , retail technologies , social media and telecommunications software sectors . Investments range from PS200,000 to PS3 million . Since 2002 the firm has invested in companies including Brightpearl , Hootsuite , Voss and publishing tool Zemanta . JamJar was founded in 2009 with a broad investment area of consumer brands . The firm invests between PS150,000 to PS1 million per round to companies located in Europe . Headquartered in London , the firm was created by the founders of Innocent and has 20 investments in 18 companies . Notable investments include Deliveroo , Dojo , Bol and Popchips . With transaction values of over PS860 million in exits since 2010 , the firm works in IT , digital media and resource efficiency sectors . Frog has partnered with more than 60 companies . Requiring up to PS17 million of growth capital , the VC firm has backed companies including Azimo , Mediatonic , EDITED and Rated People . A focus in network economics drives European based investments between PS171,000 to PS13 million . The London - based firm strives to support entrepreneurs and build large network effects within their business field . Piton was founded in 2012 and invests in online businesses that hold the potential for network effects . Investments include Mano Mano , Quandoo , Treatwell and Take Eat Easy . With PS685 million under management this firm has a geographic focus in the UK , Germany , Scandinavia and across Europe . Wellington invests between PS172,000 to PS4.3 million into digital media , software enterprises , FoodTech , AgTech and artificial intelligence sectors . Wellington was founded in 1991 and closed its first account in 1998 . Dropbox and Spotify are among their notable investments . Advent is a London - based healthcare fund that invests in life sciences businesses . The firm was founded in 2010 and invests in companies across the US , Europe and UK with headquarters in London . Within life sciences they have a particular focus in new drug discovery , enabling technologies and med tech . Investments include cardiac mapping system Acutus Medical and MediGene anticancer drugs . Eight Roads Ventures , headquartered in London , is the investment arm of US multinational Fidelity . The VC firm 's latest fund totals PS150 million . Portfolio companies include MADE.COM , notonthehighstreet , Packlink , AppsFlyer and Take Eat Easy . Their most recent exit was Wahanda ( now re - branded as Treatwell ) last year . It was the first institutional investor in Alibaba , and is still an investor today . Passion Capital is a London based VC firm set up in 2011 which has backed 49 early - stage tech startups and over 100 founders . Investments include DueDil , Show My Homework and adzuna . Founded in the 1980 's , Beringea is one of the UK 's most active growth capital investors , with offices also based in the US . Beringea invests between PS1 million and PS20 million to support high growth businesses with revenues already over PS1 million . Current investments include luxury watch retailer Watchfinder , app commerce company Poq and electric vehicle charging manufacturer Chargemaster . The company is also a key investor in bespoke jewellery making company Monica Vinader , and completed a partial exit in 2016 , generating 12x returns on the initial investment .