One of SA 's largest accelerators , Sw7 , in partnership with the law firm , Webber Wentzel , will launch their roadshow , known as the Fintech Innovation Africa . The roadshow will launch in both Cape Town and Johannesburg during the week of 27 February 2017 . " Innotribe 's Startup Challenge for Africa plays an important role in finding the continent 's most exciting young companies , bringing them together with the financial sector , " said the head of Middle East , Turkey and Africa at SWIFT , Sido Bestani in a press release to Ventureburn . Fintech Innovation Africa will act as a runway event for the SWIFT Innotribe Startup Challenge which will be held in both Africa and Russia . Africa 's SWIFT Innotribe Startup Challenge will be held in the Ivory Coast with finalists of that event presenting at Sibos in Canada in October . " The Emerging Markets , with their large underserved and ' mobile only ' communities , have the greatest opportunities for meaningful collaboration between fintechs and financial institutions , " said the regional leader for Innotribe Startup Challenge , Hazel Nolan . The Roadshow will focus on : " There is a unique opportunity for fintech innovators in Africa . The financial markets are currently dominated by a few large corporates . Under - resourced and under - served markets , combined with the access to market which these corporates offer , will mean that the opportunities to be leveraged are likely to be partner driven , " said co - founder of SW7 , Odette Jones . " As the pace of innovation increases , the larger businesses will be more and more hampered by their ability to create and deploy new market appropriate offerings . Our goal is to bring the fintech innovators together with the existing corporates to speed up the partnering process , lower the friction to engage and shorten deal cycles , " Jones continued . Nolan , Angus Brown , the ex - CEO of e - bucks , and other fintech legal specialists , will be presenting at the various events held at the Webber Wentzel offices ( Cape Town ) and the SW7 workplace in Rivonia , Johannesburg .