A new era of AI began around 2010 . Computer power capacity significantly increased and neural networks could be integrated into a GPU chip that enabled calculations to speed up experiments . Also , the rise of smartphones and cloud storage services allowed for the consolidation of enormous amount of big data . Those factors significantly impacted the growth of artificial intelligence . Those significant changes in the tech industry influenced the cybersecurity industry and led to a dramatic shift in the field . Before we discuss those changes , let 's try to get a sense of how AI creates value for users and products . AI systems can learn a user 's behavioral patterns , and in the future may potentially intuit answers to email correspondence and offer a draft of an answer to the user . Currently , big tech companies are trying to develop smart search tools , like Apple , which acquired Cue in 2013 to improve the   search experience with iOS products . Slack is trying to advance the search feature of its product , and obviously Google recently released a smart search engine for G - Suite customers to do a smart search across G - Suite product , including Drive , Gmail , Sites , Calendar Docs , Contacts , and more . But tech giants are not the only ones applying AI to structure and find hidden patterns in information . Something similar is happening in the cybersecurity field in the search for hackers ' attacks . This is how it works - security companies are applying smart prediction to find hacker patterns and identify tactics used to conduct attacks . Based on this , AI ' learns ' the behavior and can predict what kind of attack there might be next time . There might not even be a hacker attack or real information on one , but smart AI has already assessed hacker patterns . Historically , the driver of the cybersecurity industry has been the antivirus field , which has been developing actively since the 90s . That 's why the cybersecurity unicorns in general focus on antivirus , like McAfee that was acquired by intel for   $ 7.68B or Kaspersky Lab . Those tech giants built their business by applying the signature method of fighting against viruses . They hired countless analysts   who wrote anti - malware code .   And the business was dependent on hiring as many people as possible because hackers were constantly inventing different types of malware that analysts struggled to keep up with , often leaving them one step behind the hackers . But since the new growth in AI , the situation has dramatically changed . In 2011 , the next generation of cybersecurity companies started to appear , like Cylance , who has been applying AI to its products . Their software prevents   rather than reactively detects viruses and malware . Today , companies such as Cylance , Lookout , and Wallarm heavily compete with veterans like McAfee . Those startups achieved enormous growth in just in few years because they applied machine learning to their products , which search hackers ' hidden patterns to prevent cyber attacks . There is no need to hire thousands of analysts to write signatures . Just having three or four data scientists on a team of ten applying AI in the product which allows for the prediction of potential malware attacks . In our estimation , one data scientist can replace 100 analysts . So for a new generation of AI startups , hiring three or four data scientists ( instead of 300 - 400 analysts ) would be enough to fight malware attacks . As a result , the team can gain   the same level of expertise as the tech giants . The same situation is now developing in the areas of network security , IPS / IDS and in SIEM , where AI can dynamically predict potential attacks . To become a potential billion dollar company in cybersecurity ,   a startup simply needs a strong team of   data scientists fighting malware , particularly because known malware quickly becomes outdated . Hackers apply " packers " ( repackaged malware ) that can easily override commonly known signatures . Their precise ability to utilize AI to predict and analyze future attacks rather than reactively manage existing attacks explains the success of unicorn startups to combat new forms of malware . In the near future , we predict that AI will be able to effectively fight against hackers by easily detecting repacked viruses . It 's just a matter of time . That 's why , more than resources or experience , companies who actively apply AI , especially cybersecurity companies , will ultimately be successful . This article was also written by Rick Orloff , Vice President , Chief Security Officer and Chief Privacy Officer at Code42