startup pitches . Company : WarDucks . Headquarters : Dublin , Republic of Ireland . Founding Team : Virtual Reality trendsetter , Nikki Lannen . Why we like it : If you 're still amazing by 3D , you 're very behind . If you 've been to a 4D cinema , you 're only just starting to understand . The next generation is growing up expecting complete immersion into a fictional scene - welcome to Virtual Reality .   It 's an escape from work , an escape from stress and an escape from the shouts of the angry neighbour next door . Literally from your couch you can be virtually transported into another reality . Warducks is one of the guys who know where the entertainment business is heading . They build fun and innovative virtual reality games and experiences . You will be transported somewhere else , well at least convinced that you 're no longer on your couch . With specialised headsets , realistic images and a sense of your own physical presence within the virtual environment , it is pretty convincing .    One of Warducks latest games , Sneaky Bears , for mobile VR and takes you through an abandoned building , throwing teddy bears your way . They 're not there for a cuddle but rather you have to keep your head turning and your eyes peeled to check out all directions . If you do n't shoot down the bears before they scratch out your eyes and blur your vision , that 's game over . Pretty intense huh . If you keep an eye out on WarDuck 's brand , you might catch the release of their next VR adventure , a meditative experience . This is exactly what virtual reality should be doing . You will step outside of your world and be rid of your day to day stress . Not as intense as a fight against teddy bears but enough to transport you to another realm . They have more and it 's up to you to move past your amazement of 4D and join the magic of the 21st century . One of their more popular games , particularly in the US and Brazil is a Facebook and mobile hidden object game called Global Agents , which is worth checking out .   