With CES right around the corner , the biggest tech trends for the year are about to be made known . Or at least , the trends that certain entrepreneurs wish were the biggest ones . As always with the startup community , it can be tough to cut through the hype and locate the tech trends that will actually gain traction in 2017 . Which is why I 'm trying my hand at picking out the biggest niche industries that I predict will hit their tipping point and stick the landing somewhere on the mainstream 2017 startup landscape . Here 's the short list . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2016 saw a massive goldrush to get established in the rapidly legalizing cannibis industry . In 2017 , the startups should level out into a pecking order in the billion - dollar industry . Which does n't mean there is n't any drama ahead : Some predictions argue that the legalization will lower the stigma against pot smokers so far that established players will be able to easily step in . Cannibis startups only have a little time to gain as much ground as possible , so expect this industry niche to be one of the few that is actually speeding up its burn time in an otherwise austere startup landscape . This one should n't come as a surprise to anyone . AI has been popular for the past few years , but it 's still on the list because it 's constantly evolving into new areas and new applications . Massive corporations everywhere are looking to cut long - term costs by investing in AI today . And the impacts will be massive in the near future , too . Take self - driving cars as an example : They 'll certainly disrupt the truck driving business once they hit the roads . " Disruption " is a classic startup mantra , but AI is the one tech area poised to deliver on that promise in 2017 . The blockchain industry took in $ 60 billion in investments over the last decade . Here 's what 's in the future , according to a recent article from the Bitcoin News Service : " According to recent reports , blockchain has the potential to do much more than fuel innovation in fintech sector . A report by Frost and Sullivan believe that the use of blockchain technology can put a stop to cyber - attacks . Cybercriminals continue to find new ways to compromise the cyber security of businesses . Business Email Compromise attacks are the latest method adopted by them over conventional ransomware and other Advanced Persistent Threat attacks . They believe that the use of blockchain technology can increase the trust levels between the stakeholders to facilitate an exchange of intelligence among industries . " Blockchain has danced around the mainstream consciousness long enough : In 2017 , it may well emerge into the mainstream . With every major hacking event , a new cybersecurity startup pops up to address the problem . Given the multifaceted , constantly - shifting nature of cybersecurity , it 's no wonder that the field is full of opportunities for new companies to step in . Given the increasingly polarized nature of international politics , 2017 will likely see an increase in cyber threats , and in startups that combat them . Keep this list on hand as you tour CES this week , and maybe you 'll be able to stay ahead of the trending - tech curve . Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded .