It 's no secret that video is on the rise , particularly in the marketing world . According to research , 96 percent of B2B marketers use video in some capacity and 73 percent see a substantial return on investment . This kind of popularity can not be ignored when it comes to developing new products . And if you think the sports world is n't the best place to develop this kind of burgeoning trend , you could n't be more wrong . One company , neo 360 , has taken this commitment to video production to another level by providing users with comprehensive , user - focused slow - motion capabilities rarely seen even in live sporting events . By simply running a high - speed video into the neo 360 encoder , users will be able to control the frame rate with a swipe of a finger . " We started with the idea that we should have the ability to control slow motion content on our mobile device even if it was not originally recorded with that device . The challenge took our team of 5 developers over six months to figure out and after we did , we realized the huge potential of the simple idea , " said David Borish , cofounder of neo 360 in a press release . The innovative technology has so much potential that top sports networks were forced to take notice , so much so that Fox Sports has agreed to begin testing the slow motion video on - demand mobile technology at live sporting events around the country . " Super slow motion is one of the reasons that viewing sports on television is more than engaging . Being able to control these high frame rate clips at your own pace and direction is certainly a relevant and compelling companion , " said Mike Davies , Senior Vice President , and Technical and Field Operations at FOX Sports . While slow - motion technology has obviously existed for decades , this user - focused mentality could completely transform the sports world as we know it . As perhaps the most vital aspect of televised sporting events , giving viewers the power to slow down the action at their own pace is not only brilliant , but incredibly timely considering the explosion of online video content . If you want to test out this technology now , you can through iOS and Android apps . You can even use this technology through a VR headset , which will bring a whole new meaning to the word " immersive . "   Read more about other startups and apps here on Tech . Co