Australians love to travel , so it seems fitting that there are so many local startups working in the tourism and travel space . A common problem they have sought to solve is that of discovery : how to find a destination , the best things to do once you get there , and how to meet new people when you 're out on the town . A part of this problem is the fact that discovery still often relies on the old brochure picked up from the travel agent or LonelyPlanet travel guides , formats which haven't changed all that much over the last few decades . Looking to provide an update in 2017 is Alpaca Maps . Founded by Zoe Manderson , Cameron Manderson , and Joseph Hallahan , the startup has launched a platform allowing users to create and share interactive maps which display content - rich routes and itineraries , showcasing things to see and do at each stop . " Maps are not simply a one dimensional platform for directions , they are the foundation upon which human stories , photos , and tips are layered . Maps should be interactive , taking the reader on the journey , " Zoe Manderson explained . Between them , Manderson said the Alpaca Maps team has travelled to over 70 countries . Like many avid travellers , Manderson said the team has spent countless hours online trawling through travel blogs , where they realised that there was no simple way for travellers to tell their stories visually . " We came up with the idea for Alpaca a couple of years ago , but like all good things , it took time to conceptualise , " Manderson said . " In that time , we continued to travel , we talked to fellow travellers , and started discussions with tourism - related organisations . With each conversation , it became clear to us that there was a real need for an easy to use tool for creating and communicating travel stories . " Aimed at any kind of content creator in the travel space , from travel bloggers to tour operators , travel agents , publishers , and tourism bodies , Alpaca Maps allows users to trace every step of a trip . Like Google Maps , it can detail each stop , the distance between each and the mode of transport taken to travel between them ; from there , a user can tell the story of each location . Once a map is completed , it can be embedded across websites , through email , or social media . Alpaca offers a Standard subscription , where maps are free to create ; a Premium map subscription comes with support , and access to additional features and customisations . Both Standard and Premium versions are self - service , however Alpaca also offers a paid ' Valet ' option , a content creation service where its team will curate maps for clients . Manderson said the startup has seen interest from travel bloggers keen to find new ways to make their content stand out as the number of blogs continues to rise . However , the potential for use among travel agencies and tourism organisations is interesting , with Manderson saying Alpaca wants to help organisations in the space encourage visitor activity . " Route maps are inherently important for getting visitors exploring beyond the gateways and showcasing a range of different experiences . It shows them how to get off the beaten path , and provide visitors with the tools to independently explore , " Manderson said . " We focus on journeys , not directions . Our maps are more than just a way to get from point A to point B , it is about inviting visitors to explore somewhere new , see more along the way , travel further , and stay longer . " This is also what Manderson said separates Alpaca from Google Maps , which can , in a sense , be seen as a competitor . " Google Maps do directions very well , but they are not designed for discovery and exploration .... [Alpaca maps ] are designed to be the foundation for storytelling , specifically honed for travellers and travel - related content , " she said . Alpaca Maps is n't the first Australian startup , however , to look at how to improve maps . Focused on the ski resort niche is Snow Explore , allowing resorts themselves , as well as their customers , to capture multiple forms of content and then share it onto a map of a mountain , thereby allowing prospective visitors to get an idea of the mountains and whether they are appropriate for their skill level or the experience they 're after . Launched late last year , Alpaca Maps is focused on growing awareness of its product within the travel industry . As well as working to get travel bloggers using its maps , Manderson said the startup is in talks with a number of tourism bodies ; it will also be exhibiting at next month 's Pause 2017 festival in Melbourne .