Jose Llorens . Jose LlorensJose Llorens worked at Google for over three years , eventually becoming creative lead at " The Zoo " -- Google 's creative think tank for brands and agencies . Llorens chose to leave Google in 2016 to write a novel . Here 's why : Last year I took the biggest decision of my career and left behind a life of comfort to venture into the unknown . I worked at Google 's creative think - tank , known as The Zoo , where my job consisted of playing with the latest technologies and finding creative ways of using them . From creating experiences in virtual reality , to interactive 360 videos or augmented reality coloring books , there was no limit to our imagination . Our working area was more like a playground than an office and we had access to every resource we needed to generate new ideas . If someone had told me when I was a student that I would have ended up there I would n't have believed it . Quite often , I 'd get contacted by people asking me how did I get the job and how could they join my team too , which reminded me how lucky I was . However , a few reasons led me to leave it all behind and embark in a new challenge : Writing a novel . In the age of globalism and connectivity it 's easy to be overwhelmed . We have in front of us the broadest range of choices to ever be available to humans , which means we need to make more decisions . There are so many roads to choose that we keep asking ourselves if the one we are walking is the best one . Is this the right career path ? What about changing countries again ? Is this my true vocation ? These were the common doubts that kept me awake at night . I envy my father on this , he 's an airline captain who knew since he was six years old that he wanted to fly airplanes , and now that he 's close to retiring he still enjoys every flight . I wish I had that , but there is n't one single job that will give me that boost . I have worn many hats already : Photographer , editor , art director , teacher , entrepreneur , freelancer , account manager , construction worker , public relations , creative director , barman , and extra in " Game of Thrones . " I enjoyed them all but I would n't do only one of those for the rest of my life and I 've realised that maybe I want to do everything . I wo n't be an expert on one thing but know a bit about many things . Therefore , learning to become a writer seemed like an interesting new thing to do . Working at Google was challenging , do n't get me wrong . You are surrounded by some of the smartest people around and overachievers that keep you in a constant state of stimulation . I had to sell ideas to big audiences , deal with C - level executives and come up with constant innovation . However , since it 's a huge company , if at the end of the presentation the client did n't buy the idea , you still get paid . Things can go wrong but you will get your salary and free meals , which is a good thing if you seek for stability , but misses the emotional rollercoaster of the entrepreneurs and self - workers , where your pay is strictly related to the outcome of your work . I had a good job and a network within tech and advertising , so I could have stopped pressing the gas pedal and relaxed to enjoy the ride , but my mind would n't let me rest . The idea of jumping into a new industry in which I had no contacts or knowledge seemed exciting enough just for the challenge of trying to succeed in a new discipline . Sometimes the brain is a sucker for drama . This is the dark side of advertising that we do n't want to think about so I 'll say it clearly : Advertising fosters consumerism and there 's no way around it . Even though our focus as creatives is to create beautiful and engaging content , the underlying goal most of the time is to increase sales . Sometimes you can do great work , and I got the chance to help NGOs that are fighting Alzheimer 's , cancer , and climate change , as well as produce work for companies and startups in whose products I believed in . But many others , you have to work for brands that might not be that appealing to you and advertise products that you do n't feel are that necessary to the world , because they pay too . In a time when we hear news every day about global warming , pollution , scarcity of resources , mass extinction of species and an increasing gap between the richest and the poorest , it 's hard not to realise that you are a part of the problem when you 're putting your efforts on stimulating consumerism and increasing sales . As small as my contribution was , I was a soldier in that war and could n't help to feel guilty for it . I 'm turning 30 this year , which means I 'm still young enough to make mistakes and fail , so I had to take the chance . In a few years I hope to be married and have kids , and in such a scenario I ca n't see myself going bankrupt or not bringing home an income for a long time , because my kids will be dependent on me and my partner , and I would n't gamble with their future . Now I 'm free in that sense . I can live anywhere in the world , be rich , be poor , it does n't matter as long as no one relies on my income , so this is the time to risk and win big , fail , or maybe just something in between and sell a few books . I remember when I quit my job that some of my older colleagues felt happy for me , but at the same time jealous that they could n't do the same because they had families . They 'd rather be great parents and ensure a stable future to their kids than follow their crazy dreams , which I completely understand . It was now or wait until I retired . Last but not least , I 've had this story in my mind for the last five years . The more I travelled and the more people I met , the more the narrative took shape in my mind , up the point that I had to take the time to spill it out on the pages . I have lived and worked in seven countries , and in every one of them , from Mexico to Berlin , I found a common trait amongst my generation which is the will to adhere meaning to our lives . It 's no longer enough with just having a job , we want to change the world for the better and have a positive impact . We want to be successful whilst having time to enjoy life at its fullest , and this is why we struggle so much when managing our most precious resource , time . Hence the title for the novel , " Time on Earth . " You can find it here , and if you read it , I hope you enjoy it as much as I enjoyed writing it . It has been a cathartic experience , locking myself up for ten months , alone with my mind until I found the sequence of 94.717 words that tell the exact story I wanted to tell . Next challenge : Turning the novel into a movie directed by David Fincher , so if anyone knows someone who knows someone ... please let me know ! Get the latest Google stock price here .