Ever since Star Wars hit theaters in 1977 , the world has been fascinated with holograms . Princess Leia 's distressed message to Obi - Wan Kenobi was the innovative fantasy of every tech entrepreneur that wanted to travel to a galaxy far , far away . And while technology hasn't made this kind of ghostly projection possible for anyone but the CNN newsroom , one startup is making affordable hologram - like technology a reality . Kino - mo , a London - based startup , is giving hope to tech fans that thought they might never see this innovative technology come to life with Hypervsn . And while other iterations of holographic technology have required expensive setups , elaborate configurations , and notably large dedicated spaces , Kino - mo promises a cost - effective and scalable alternative that could change the medium forever . While not technically considered holograms , these 3D visuals float in the air just like the real thing . " New , hi - tech and scalable visual technology is long overdue and the market of digital displays needs alternative solutions , " said Art Stavenka , cofounder of Kino - mo , in an interview with Business Zone . " Holograms could have filled the gap by astonishing viewers and effectively delivering advertising messaging , however , they are simply unavailable for the mass market due to extortionate costs , and difficulties with setting up and content creation . " _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ While you might be expecting a hi - tech projector machine with expansive antennas and millions of wires to be behind this revolutionary technology , the pieces involved in making these projection is surprisingly simple . As a self described plug - and - play solution , Kino - mo Hypervsn uses a propeller - looking unit with a patented combination of chips , magnets and LEDS to project everything from watches and words to celebrities and fruit . " Providing high impact and designed to require little maintenance , the technology requires no custom setup , and content creation is quick and straightforward . Importantly , the displays are distinguished by being low cost and suitable for creating a network of devices , " said Stavenka in the same interview . Kino - mo is , however , not solely in the 3D visual business for enthusiastic Star Wars fans . With their technology being perfectly suited to small and medium sized projections , they have dedicated their focus to the advertising world , displaying merchandise , discounted prices , and celebrity spokespeople in malls and stores around the world . Kino - mo took second place in ShowStopper LaunchIt , the official pitch competition at CES focused around Eureka Park , the go - to location for startups . Kino - mo was noticeably the hottest booth on the floor , and if you are currently attending the event , be sure to check out the incredible technology in person . Trust us , you wo n't regret it . Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded . Photo : Kino - mo