Since Regulation Crowdfunding began on May 16 last year , 335 companies have filed offering documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) to fundraise on securities - based crowdfunding platforms . Of those companies , 43 percent were funded , 30 percent failed , and the remainder are still open and trying to get funding . The total capital committed to date on these platforms is in excess of $ 40 million , with the average successful crowdfunding campaign raising around $ 282,000 from about 312 investors . The most recent quarter saw the greatest number of companies file with the SEC . This signals that issuers might finally be catching on to the opportunity that Regulation Crowdfunding holds . Above : Four quarters of growth in the number of issuers ( companies launching an equity crowdfunding campaign ) And what about the portals that have emerged to host these fundraises ? Of the 26 portals registered with FINRA to help companies sell Regulation Crowdfunding securities , nine have already closed , gone out of business , or been shut down . Of those remaining , Wefunder ( based in San Francisco and Massachusetts ) is leading the pack both in the number of deals and total dollars raised . They have been in business since Regulation Crowdfunding went into effect and have helped 63 companies pull in almost $ 18 million . Start Engine ( in Los Angeles ) ranks second with 27 campaigns funded , and Microventures ( Austin ) , NextSeed ( Houston ) , SeedInvest ( New York ) , and Republic ( New York ) rank third through sixth . Interestingly , the location of these platforms also matches the states that have raised the most capital .   Several platforms ( both old and new ) have only funded a handful of campaigns . This may signal that brand awareness and marketing by the larger incumbents is driving both companies seeking capital and investors looking for deal flow . However , If you dig a little deeper and look at the capital raised during the last three quarters , you will see in that while Wefunder is leading in overall dollars , both Microventures and Start Engine are not far behind in terms of quarterly commitments ( see Orange bar to compare Q1 , 17 results ) .   Microventures , the offshoot of rewards - based crowdfunding platform Indiegogo only launched at the end of last year and is already showing strong results , with 100 percent campaign success . While the platform hasn't run many campaigns , the campaigns it has run have raised slightly more success than those on Wefunder .   I expect to see Indiegogo put more time and energy into converting its most successful rewards campaigns into equity campaigns on Microventures . This will make them a strong contender in the marketplace . Start Engine , with its strong performance in the transportation , software and entertainment / media sectors will also be a strong contender , as will Republic , the offshoot of Angelist and SeedInvest . If you are a startup looking to crowdfund , you are likely most interested in success rates . While Wefunder has the most deals and raised the most money in aggregate , it holds second place in terms of the average raise per successful campaign . Microventures took the prize with $ 286,334 . For the moment this is a competitive advantage as Microventures moves from its go - to - market strategy to its market expansion one . Nonetheless , Start Engine and SeedInvest are n't far behind and will most likely be appealing to startups as well . Now that the industry is a year old and has seen steady growth with relatively few mishaps , I expect the next year to be even more competitive . Wefunder got out of the gate strong , but can it stand up to the portals that have deep - pocket VCs behind them ? Sherwood Neiss is a partner at Crowdfund Capital Advisors . Neiss helped lead the U.S. fight to legalize debt and equity based crowdfunding , coauthored Crowdfund Investing for Dummies , and cofounded Crowdfund Capital Advisors , where he provides strategy and technology services to those seeking to benefit from crowdfund investing . Neiss and Jason Best are credited as the fathers of Title III of the JOBS Act . After attending the bill - signing ceremony at the White House , they formed Crowdfund Capital Advisors to study what is happening in crowdfunding , analyze results , report trends , and follow opportunities . They are active investors in the crowd finance space .