Finding clean energy solutions is no easy feat . Recently , some of Silicon Valley 's sharpest data science minds came together to use their powers for good at the U.S. Department of State 's Clean Energy Data Science Challenge , co - hosted by Booz Allen Hamilton , the World Bank and Galvanize San Francisco , to develop solutions for those without access to reliable electricity . According to the World Energy Outlet over 1.2 billion people around the world lack access to reliable electricity in 2016 . The objective of the Clean Energy Data Science Challenge was to mine and leverage open data to promote the development of innovative and scalable solutions . Read an inspiring story about life as a data scientist There were 15 companies who presented with solutions to address global problems around energy ; of those companies , three active students and an alumnus of the University of New Haven - Galvanize Master of Science in Data Science program , and two current students in the Galvanize Data Science Immersive program also participated . Challenge winners ( clockwise from upper left ) : Zachary Thomas ( Galvanize DSI ) , Jason Chiang ( Galvanize DSI ) , Cameron Kruse ( National Geographic ) , Mehmet Turanalp ( Vakif Bank ) , Victor Garcia ( Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory ) , Anthony Abercrombie ( gU4 ) , Lukmaan Bawazer ( gU4 ) . Not pictured : Baolin Liu ( gU3 ) . The winning team created a mock startup called Cartesian Product , a clean energy knowledge management platform that enables a diverse set of users to identify high - potential emerging energy markets . The vision is to crowdsource the collection of ground - truth data to domain experts , enabling machine learning solutions that optimize alternative energy investment on a global scale . As Zvika Krieger notes in her Medium article about the Challenge , " Providing access to energy can enable progress across education , health , social and economic sectors " in the developing world and beyond . We 're grateful to have access to reliable electricity , and to be working with and learning from dynamic people who are applying their ingenuity and expertise to helping others gain access to a resource that is often taken for granted . Read more about startups addressing global issues at Tech . Co This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .