Since its inception , Facebook Live has allowed anyone and everyone to broadcast videos of what they are doing in real time . From Michael Phelps showcasing his experience in Rio to Kobe Bryant playing in his final NBA game to the Emmys taking us behind the scenes , this new form of social media has taken the world by storm . However , this new phenomenon does n't stop at celebrities . Everyone 's newsfeed is now filled with friends and family live streaming concerts , documenting their travel excursions , and simply broadcasting their own digital soapbox . As a marketing expert , I believe now is the best time for businesses to jump on the Facebook Live bandwagon . Not only is it one more exciting opportunity to showcase who you are as a company and what makes you unique , but Facebook also gives priority to Live videos in people 's newsfeeds . It 's an opportunity to break through the clutter . So what 's the best way to use Facebook Live ? Take a look at these tips and you 'll be on your way to a viral live stream video in no time . You want to come across as authentic and genuine , so do n't read off a script . Prior to going live , think about what you want to accomplish and what you want your followers to take away . Are you a restaurant showcasing the prep work behind your meals ? Discuss the details behind your recipes and give us a tour of your kitchen . In order to increase views and engagement , let people know ahead of time that you 'll be going live . For example , one of our clients will be rehearsing for their big show at a set date and time , so we let our followers know that we 'll be broadcasting live on Facebook so they could get a sneak peek . Post a day or two ahead of time , explaining what you 'll be broadcasting and what time you 'll be doing it .   While authenticity is important , it 's still necessary to have quality lighting and sound . If users ca n't see or hear your live broadcast , they 'll stop watching immediately . Invest in a wireless lavaliere that you can plug into your phone , and record only in well - lit areas . People love going behind the scenes . Facebook Live is a great opportunity to showcase your company , how your product is made , or capture a day in the life of an employee . Give us something that we would n't be able to see elsewhere . As a result , individuals will be more apt to watch your future broadcasts . Yes , keeping your phone steady during a selfie is down right impossible . But for the sake of your viewer 's stomach , refrain from a mobile rollercoaster ride . Be sure to hold your phone steady and make slow movements in transition . Facebook Live allows viewers to ask questions during broadcasts . This is a great time to address them . Be sure to mention the person 's name when you address their question so you 're speaking directly to them . You also should n't forget to respond to comments once the video is over . Your live broadcast will stay on your newsfeed for others to watch , so encourage people to ask questions or comment long after the live version is wrapped . Read more about social media trends here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .