Proterra Proterra is making serious moves to bring heavy - duty buses into the future . The electric bus manufacturer is launching an autonomous driving program with the Regional Transportation Commission of Washoe County -- the body responsible for mass transit in the cities of Sparks and Reno , Nevada . Proterra said the pilot is aimed at developing the algorithms required to launch self - driving buses in a commercial setting . " While there 's a lot of interest in autonomous vehicles in the passenger car market , there has never been a great demonstration of how public transit can fit into an autonomous world , " Matt Horton , chief commercial officer of Proterra , told Business Insider . Horton declined to elaborate on the level of autonomy Proterra is ultimately pursuing , stating that the startup will only release self - driving features " at the pace at which our customers are comfortable with it . " Proterra joins Tesla in the race to explore autonomous tech on buses . Tesla plans to build a small , electric bus that can drive autonomously , CEO Elon Musk wrote in his " Master Plan , Part Deux " last July . The company has yet to disclose an exact timeline for the project . Horton said Proterra is expecting competition from Tesla and others in the transportation industry . " Not only Tesla , but almost everybody in transportation today making vehicles I think is going to have to have very serious electrification programs , " he said . " They 're going to need to be serious about autonomous vehicles and definitely very involved in the connectivity of those vehicles . " For the first phase of Proterra 's pilot , a battery - powered bus will operate on specific city routes in Nevada to gather mapping and localization data . Proterra will then work on refining its code to ensure the buses can detect obstacles like pedestrians and other vehicles . The third and final phase of the pilot is focused on licensing and commercializing the technology . Proterra is working with the University of Nevada , Reno and its Living Lab Coalition on the autonomous driving software . Horton declined to comment on the kinds of sensors and cameras Proterra is using on the buses . Proterra made headlines last September when it launched an all - electric bus with a 350-mile range -- enough to operate an 18-hour route just like a diesel bus . Proterra has customers in 15 states across the country and has pre - sold over 300 buses to - date , which will all be operational by the end of this year . The startup has raised $ 280 million in venture funding from backers like Tao Capital Partners and General Motor 's venture capital arm . Horton said it makes particular sense to explore self - driving technology in mass transit , especially in bus rapid transit systems that follow fixed guidelines . It 's easier to integrate autonomous technology in vehicles that operate in a single lane and on a dedicated route , as opposed to cars , which make more complex maneuvers that require more sophisticated sensor technology . " Transit agencies are going to move toward integrating these active safety features regardless of the type of vehicle , " Horton said . " It simply comes down to safety . " Get the latest Tesla stock price here .