The digital world is dynamic and allows businesses to push the limits and seek continual improvement . The entire industry moves at a breakneck pace , meaning you ca n't look backward even for a second if you want to keep up . To help you move past your competitors , we 've curated a list of the top digital transformation insights from 2016 that could shape the world of digital in 2017 . We encounter this often . The survival of an ecommerce business requires re - platforming . Essentially , re - platforming is migrating from a current ecommerce platform to another with the objective of creating competitive advantage in an increasingly disrupted and complex digital marketplace . Mobile moments are short - but - frequent instances of need when customers reach for their mobile devices to get what they want as quickly and accurately as possible . It 's these moments that marketers must capitalize on because   many of these moments are I - want - to - know , I - want - to - buy , I - want - to - go or I - want - to - do moments , where you can engage with prospective customers in a one - on - one transaction . A customer journey map is one of the most powerful methods of identifying and understanding the needs of your customers . By mapping out each and every step of interaction between a customer and your digital product , you can ensure that your offering always meets or exceeds their needs and desires . Gamification can inspire renewed energy and motivation in the office . Gamification is a scientific , technology - driven process that motivates employees via point scoring such as a game , thus creating a personal challenge . The method of gamification involves badges , leader boards and points that can be used for rewards , achievement and recognition . Instead of bombarding every buyer with the exact same message , such as information about your latest tropical plants , there are methods of advertising being cultivated that directly market to a customer based on their needs , such as people who have an Australian native garden . Retailers are now able to advance their offerings from mapping past shopping choices to predicting shopping decisions by assessing big data information and insights . This makes way for a personalization strategy to ensure you market the right messages to the right audience segments . There is a fundamental difference between a proof of concept ( POC ) and a minimum viable product ( MVP ) . A POC is largely used to determine technical and design challenges . An MVP , on the other hand , is a concept that not only defines the product design but also answers almost all technical questions and tests fundamental business strategies . Bots are the conversational agents that live inside messaging platforms like Facebook Messenger and Slack . We 've already heard the term " conversational apps , " and bots are everywhere now . New avatar bots with intelligent context have made them the best bet to succeed apps & websites . Consequently , Microsoft has tried to get ahead of this trend with Microsoft Bot Framework . Visualizing data using appropriate techniques can reveal insights for decision - makers to make informed , data - driven choices .    There 's many more topics we could have covered such as remote workforces , augmented and virtual reality , big data , the internet of things and artificial intelligence , which are all worth keeping an eye on in 2017 . There is no question that digital transformation has become a necessity , but these tips can help you build an agile , adaptable business model that is designed to thrive long into the future . Nathan Sinnott is a tech geek and entrepreneur . He is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of digital agency , Newpath WEB , and an investor in a handful of startups .   Nathan volunteers for an Australian wildlife foundation , rescuing ...