Rosaline Koo made a huge bet with CXA . Not long after she started up the healthcare products marketplace , it acquired Singapore 's third - largest homegrown insurance brokerage , Pan Group . Rosaline injected all her life savings and took out a loan to finance the purchase and build the venture . It 's now paying off . CXA today announced it has become a US$ 100 million company following a US$ 25 million series B investment , co - led by Facebook co - founder Eduardo Saverin 's B Capital Group and Singapore - based EDBI . Global life and health reinsurance company RGA , Philips Healthcare , maker of data - driven medical devices and disease management programs , and existing investors NSI Ventures and Bioveda Capital also put in some cash . Rosaline will use the funds to take CXA beyond Singapore and Hong Kong to markets like China , India , Japan , South Korea , Taiwan , Indonesia , Malaysia , the Philippines , and Thailand . CXA lets employees choose a mix of insurance and wellness benefits that best suits them . So rather than having , say , a US$ 1,000 one - size - fits - all insurance coverage , which you rarely or never use , you can free up that money and decide where you want to spend it . CXA aggregates all providers in its platform - from insurers to gyms and yoga studios . Employers can use the service to consolidate their vendors , digitize claims , and manage payments . Using CXA 's big data , they will be able to directly link their wellness and disease management programs to health outcomes and premium reductions . " We 're bringing evidence - based wellness into the workplace to improve employee health in order to control rising employer healthcare costs , " says Rosaline . " Instead of just offering advice , we actually deliver solutions to companies by aggregating the providers , the data analytics , and the tools . Our goal is to shift the focus of insurance from treatment to prevention and to empower employees to take personal responsibility for their health . " Rosaline knows the sector inside - out . Before her startup venture , she led Mercer Marsh Benefits , the largest employee benefits brokerage and HR benefits consultancy in Asia Pacific , overseeing a 14-country operation with over 400 staff and growing the business eightfold . CXA now caters to 500 corporate clients , 45 of which are Fortune 500 companies . It 's reached US$ 10 million in annual revenue . The company 's regional expansion includes distribution deals with banks and insurers , who will white - label its platform to cross - sell individual insurance products . It has just piloted its first deal , with more in the works . This article by Judith Balea originally appeared on Tech in Asia , a Burn Media publishing partner . Feature image via Tech in Asia .