Chris Sacca of Lowercase Capital . Getty Billionaire venture capitalist Chris Sacca surprised many in the tech world on Wednesday when he announced that he was retiring from startup investing . After a stint at the Silicon Valley office of law firm Fenwick & West and then Google , Sacca struck out on his own and founded Lowercase Capital in 2007 . He built his reputation and fortune on early investments in companies like Facebook , Uber , and Twitter . In late 2014 , he was introduced to a more general audience in the " Startup " podcast ( in the process of being adapted to television by Zach Braff ) and then to millions more when he joined the hit show " Shark Tank " as a guest investor the next year . Sacca , known for his goofy cowboy shirts , wrote on the Lowercase Capital blog this week that he was " hanging up the spurs " and stepping away from startup investing and " Shark Tank " to focus on his young family and other projects . He will continue to advise the companies he 's invested in but his Lowercase Capital partner Matt Mazzeo will handle the portfolio . Sacca also said he 'll be launching his own podcast and hinted at involvement in a political project that does n't involve running for office . Back in 2015 , Sacca told " The 4-Hour Workweek " author and tech investor Tim Ferriss in an episode of Ferriss ' podcast that his ability to spot and develop startups that would become billion - dollar companies came from nearly 20 years of experience and the counsel of veteran investors like Josh Kopelman of First Round , Tony Conrad of True Ventures , and Hans Swildens of Industry Ventures . He noted that luck is involved and that his intuition can be off sometimes -- he still regrets declining to fund Airbnb and ignoring an early email inquiry from Snapchat cofounder Bobby Murphy -- but his investment philosophy made him one of the Valley 's top names in the last decade . Here are its four elements he cited . When Sacca and his Lowercase Capital partner Matt Mazzeo decide to invest their money into a company , they are also committing themselves to be advisers to its founders . Sacca said that if he 's going to make this commitment , he does n't need to think that he 'll be able to see a startup through to its IPO but , he explained , " I need to know that I can have a material impact to make something more likely to succeed . " Anyone with a regular job has to work on projects that are assigned to them , whether they want to or not . Sacca said rookie investors are often so used to this mindset that they leave themselves too open to deals . " When you get into investing , your default stance should be ' No , ' because most deals suck , " he said . " Most deals wo n't make money . Most companies will fail . And the temptation always is you see your first deal and you 're like , ' OK , I know I can be helpful to these guys , I know I can make this s----y thing better . ' And so your first few deals are always your worst . " Sacca learned that it 's important to build a portfolio that allows for chances to make money from the " unicorns " ( rare billion - dollar companies ) and moderate successes by not spreading yourself thin , entering at a price that 's low enough , and making investments with a longterm perspective . Sacca said that before he realized this , he once " sold a company to Amazon where I saw 3x on a $ 50,000 investment in a fund . By the time the fund got paid back ... I had been busting my ass with that company for a couple years , and like I barely had enough money left to buy that [ founder ] dinner to celebrate the deal . " Sacca said he 's unwilling to compromise on his integrity when he makes a deal , and it 's worked out for him . " There 's stuff that I 've passed on that I just do n't regret it at all , " he said . Some examples he mentioned are advertising businesses that place deceptive ads on misspelled domains , subscription services that are intentionally difficult to cancel , products built on unsubstantiated claims , and social networks that utilize anonymous content . " It seemed like a good way to make money , " Sacca said , " but I do n't have to explain to my kids that that 's how I 've made money . " You can listen to Sacca and Ferriss 's full , in - depth conversation on Ferriss 's site or wherever you get podcasts .