( Reuters ) - Uber hired the team behind a Chicago transportation brokerage last fall as part of an effort to break into the long - haul trucking industry . All five employees from 4Front Logistics joined Uber in November , said an Uber spokeswoman , who added that Uber did not pay anything for the company . Brokerages such as 4Front Logistics connect manufacturers and retailers that are shipping goods with truck owners and fleets . The deal comes as Uber is vying to apply the logistics expertise it has gained ferrying passengers in countries around the world to the trucking industry . That strategy puts it in the middle of a large , highly fragmented industry of freight brokers who match cargo with truck operators . Uber Chief Executive Travis Kalanick posted a photo on Twitter on Sunday of a large white truck emblazoned with the words " Uber Freight . " In one of Uber 's first public displays of its interest in trucking , Uber last August acquired self - driving truck startup Otto for $ 680 million , a deal that is now at the center of a legal battle with Alphabet 's Waymo . Since launching its push into trucking about a year ago , Uber has been steadily gaining traction , said transportation analyst Jack Atkins of investment bank Stephens Inc. " They are being very active building up their scale in the brokerage market , both in terms of going after customers but also making sure they have the capacity to fulfill that , " he said . Uber , along with Otto , has over the past several months acquired a fleet of its own trucks to test its technology , pitched its services to independent truck owners and trucking associations , and built out a host of other technologies involving mapping and tracking , which are part of the logistics package for trucking . As Silicon Valley aims to ease logistics in entrenched industries , a host of startups have rushed into trucking , a $ 700 billion - a - year industry that is notorious for low margins . Despite its small size , 4Front will help Uber build capacity , said Ivan Tsybaev , chief executive of Trucker Path , a startup that has built a popular navigation app for truckers . " It 's really hard to scale fast , even with Uber 's resources , " he said . 4Front Logistics was granted a broker license for moving freight across state lines in March 2016 by the U.S. Department of Transportation , according to the DOT database . That license was revoked last month . The reason is unclear , but a DOT spokesman said most often revocation is the result of companies not providing proof of insurance . Uber was granted a DOT broker license for its Uber Freight business at the end of September . Otto has been registered with the DOT and with the California Department of Motor Vehicles to haul freight as a carrier - not a broker - since last year . ( Reporting by Julia Love and Heather Somerville in San Francisco Editing by Jonathan Weber and Bill Trott )