3D printing has become incredibly popular in recent years and it 's only a matter of time until most of the products we buy are additively manufactured . This is especially true when you consider the customization that 3D printing offers : the ability to design and create something specifically for the user . This is goal behind the Wiivv 's new app . Wiivv , a startup that impressed the world last year with their 3D printed insoles , has taken 3D printed footwear a step further . This time they 're creating Custom Fit Sandals that are designed specifically for the person who purchases them . Wiivv , based out of San Diego , was founded on the grounds of 3D printing . Their original goal was to create a 3D printed insole that reduced foot pain and fatigue . After a massively successful Kickstarter , Wiivv began shipping out insoles that started a revolution in 3D printed accessories . Their next big project is their sandals , and their Kickstarter campaign has already outpaced their record - setting insole campaign . The technology behind Wiivv 's Custom Fit Sandals is comprehensive . Through a smartphone app , users will take a few photos of their feet . Wiivv then maps your feet with over 200 data points and constructs the perfect sandal , designed specifically for your feet . Wiivv claims that the sandals are supposed to be the most comfortable pair of footwear you 've ever owned - and after looking at their product , it 's hard to argue against that . Their custom insoles have already taken the market by storm , and over 15,000 positive reviews .   But that was just for an insole that you put in a mass - produced shoe . These sandals are custom designed for the owner , and they take less than seven days to prepare and ship . Everything about the sandal is created for maximum comfort to your feet . One of the biggest benefits Wiivv has over larger competitors is their size . By being one of " the smaller guy , " Wiivv does n't have to worry about mass producing shoes or sandals at an affordable scale . Most shoes are designed to be a " one size fits all " type of deal . Sure , there are different shoe sizes available , but no two feet are alike . Mass produced shoes are meant to be accessible by millions of people . Plus , Wiivv 's sandals are produced on a smaller scale , so they have the resources to create the perfect fit for every customer . The comfort comes from the sole , arch support , toe thong and toe grip at the top of the sandal . Each pair is printed based on the data Wiivv collects from mapping your feet . This makes the sandal ideal for anyone that has irregular arches , foot pain , or someone who has never found a pair of sandals that are comfortable . Not only are the sandals comfortable , but they 're nice to look at too . There are different color options available since it would n't make much sense to design a custom - fit sandal without making it exactly how you want it to look . Do n't be surprised if you start to see other companies following suit . 3D printing is getting more popular and affordable . Also , the customization of Wiivv 's sandals and insoles is just the start - think about all the other articles of clothing , accessories and other household items that can be perfect for you through 3D mapping and printing . Read more about burgeoning startups here on Tech . Co