No startup is an island . Surviving the business world takes more than a good idea and a quality team . If you want to see your idea come to fruition , you 're going to need support from your local ecosystem . Whether it 's capital or mentoring , your startup ca n't succeed without a little help from your community . Fortunately , events like Dallas Startup Week are designed to provide exactly that . This week at Dallas Startup Week powered by Chase for Business , the stunning Texas city will play host to a bevy of startup founders , entrepreneurs , and local influencers in hopes of spurring innovation . Participants will be lucky enough to enjoy a full schedule of enlightening talks , helpful mentor sessions , and enough startup knowledge to change the way you think about business . All the action will take place at Chase Basecamp , the hub for activities at Dallas Startup Week . You 'll be able to find Chase Basecamp in the heart of downtown Dallas at St. Paul Place , also known as the D Magazine building on Ross . With such a full schedule , it 's going to be hard to decide where to go . Fortunately , we 've listed out a few of the top events on each day so you wo n't miss out on any of the fun . Check out the events below and get excited for a week of entrepreneurial experiences : Take advantage of this unique opportunity to watch a fireside chat with special guest Paul Bettner , who co - created the popular mobile game , Words with Friends , and founded PLAYFUL CORP . You can also head on over to Top Success Stories of Dallas Entrepreneurs : The Good , The Bad , and The Ugly to see Tech . Co 's own Frank Gruber discuss entrepreneurial success stories that will inspire you to get out there and innovate . If you 're looking for a little mentoring , Dallas Business Journal Presents : Bizwomen Mentoring Monday is where you want to be . The event will offer attendees the opportunity to choose from over 45 mentors who are the most influential women in the community . Before that , make sure to stop by the Basecamp Breakfast to fuel up before the week begins . Also , do n't forget to make an appearance at the Salesforce Happy Hour and DSW Launch Party that night . Stop by this exciting fireside chat with special guest Patrick Lee ! Patrick is the founder and former CEO of Rotten Tomatoes , a leading entertainment website focused on movie reviews and news and one of the top 600 most trafficked sites in the world ! After that , do n't forget to hit up the important talk titled Five Steps to Use Diversity & Inclusion to Improve Your Bottom Line , which will cover how to hire , retain , evaluate pay , offer flexible benefits , and build a diverse workforce . Bring your hardest fundraising questions and join this interactive discussion with 5 influential local venture capitals who will share their thoughts on the state of Dallas ' ecosystem , raising capital , and what Dallas needs to do to attract even more dollars . Before that , make sure to stop by the Fireside Chat with Seth Priebatsch , Chief Ninja at LevelUp . After that , head on over to the 4th Annual State of Entrepreneurship to find out what 's taken place over the last year in the Dallas Startup Community ! Join the Dallas Startup Week team for an interactive experience to learn the in 's and out 's of renting a studio , how to get your music on TV , and how you can it make it on your own . After that , head on over to Ethical Fashion On the Rise + Rachel Zoe Style Box Party to enjoy interactive experience filled with shopping , music , cocktails , sweet treats , appetizers , giveaways , and more . At this event , you 'll see a number of Dallas - based real estate tech startups brought together in one room to show off their technology . Come to see their products , learn about job opportunities , and network in the industry . This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series . Photo : Flickr / Daxix