Cape Town , 25th January , 2016 : Ecommerce in South Africa - while still just a slice of the overall retail pie - is growing as much as 35% per year*. However , of this , the lion 's share still operate in the B2C space , suggesting that B2B companies - those that use the web to sell goods and services to other businesses - have yet to cotton - on to its very lucrative potential . So says Charlie Stewart , CEO of digital marketing agency Rogerwilco and co - author of Business to Business Marketing . A Step - by - Step Guide ( Penguin ) . " B2B is perceived as the less sexy sister of B2C , despite having a massive traditional footprint in South Africa . It 's also been slower to respond to customers ' new digital diets that sees them - be it to look for an air conditioner or forklift - use search as a primary source to enquire or buy . " So what 's holding it back ? Lethargy says Stewart . " It takes time and money to successfully operate in the ecommerce space . A core component of its efficacy relies on the creation of useful content that is amplified across the web to match customers ' Google searches . " In other words , if the owner of a SME wants to acquire the services of a tax consultancy , they are likely to look online first to review services and prices . " But if the tax practitioner is n't there , then it 's lost itself a potential sale , " explains Stewart . There 's also fear of online fraud . " We 're still coming to grips with buying online with approximately 22% of local internet users having yet made an electronic purchase , " says Stewart . Companies also need to ensure they have robust IT systems that can manage online enquiries and orders . " Otherwise they risk reputational damage if they 're unable to deliver the goods . " Overcoming these challenges could yield significant changes for local B2B ecommerce . Especially given companies reportedly gain 44% in order value by going online suggests a 2015 report from eCommerce Insights.com . " Besides the now ubiquitous success stories of Uber and AirBnB , innovative entrepreneurs in other industries are also using digital to disrupt traditional peers , " says Stewart . Take travel for instance . " While the industry as a whole is set for a tough 2016 , its fastest growth segment is independent travel consultants or ITCs , " says Rian Bornman , founder of FlightSiteAgent , a B2B online travel provider . " Estimated to represent R3-billion of the R37-billion travel category , it 's attracting travel consultants who break away from their previous jobs to go it alone . " Launched three years ago , the platform enables ITCs as well as individuals without prior experience - e.g. stay - at - home moms or township entrepreneurs - to search , hold , book or ticket flights free of charge for clients , family or friends using its online platform . They can also conduct business at home or from small offices at a fraction of the cost of traditional agents who may rent space in malls or high streets . " The beauty of an online B2B model is its scalability into new markets and functionality , " says Bornman . " Locally , I believe these platforms , not only in travel , offer the unique opportunity to unlock value through job creation , skills transfer and stakeholder transformation ; all equally important goals in a South African context . " Stewart concurs but suggests that innovative start - ups and individuals are those who 'll likely adapt the fastest to B2B online models - despite the multiple benefits available for traditional industries like mining to capitalise on . " The so - called ' self - sold market ' that sees buyers search for , research and evaluate products online , is typified by people who are connected and comfortable online .   As such , it 's natural for them to break - away from traditional B2B business models and launch ecommerce platforms that cut out the need for bricks n mortar premises and intermediaries , " says Stewart . " And when they do , there will be plenty of unclaimed territory for them to leverage and market their B2B businesses , products and services to , " he concludes . Business to Business Marketing : A Step - by - step guide by Charlie Stewart and Mark Eardley is due to be released in February and will be available from bookstores and Takealot for R220 .