On the 13th of April , we 're going to host this year 's edition of the EU - Startups Conference at the HTW Berlin . We 'll have inspiring speakers like the founders of 9flats , Qype , Just Eat , Slush , CareerFoundry , Teamleader and RCKT , great networking opportunities with delicious food , and most importantly : An exciting Pitch Competition with 15 startup teams . Our goal is to showcase some of Europe 's best seed and pre - seed startups out there ! The Prize : The winning startup of this year 's Pitch Competition will receive a prize package worth EUR11,000 and will be prominently featured on EU - Startups.com . In detail the prize package includes the following : The Jury : The participating teams will get a lot of valuable feedback from an jury of well known investors and experts . The jury includes Kinga Stanislawska - Founder and Managing Partner of Experior Venture Fund , Alexander Kolpin - Managing Director of WestTech Ventures , and Thomas P. Offner - Senior Manager at PwC. We might add one additional investor to the jury team within the coming weeks .   Apply now : If you 're interested to pitch your startup with a 3-minute - presentation in front of an interested audience of 400 people ( investors , startup enthusiasts , media people and an expert jury ) , please apply now by sending an email to Thomas@EU - Startups.com . Tell us about your business model and the current stage of your startup ( 4 - 5 sentences ) or send us a short pitch deck ! - > The application deadline is the 12th of March ! Precondition : Your startup should be in pre - seed or seed stage , not older than 2 years , should have raised no VC funding yet ( or less than EUR500 K ) and has to be based in Europe . Tickets : If you 're planning to attend this year 's EU - Startups Conference , we highly recommend you to purchase your ticket now ! We kept it affordable : The two ticket categories we 're offering ( EUR49/EUR99 ) already include food and drinks during our networking break . Tickets can be purchased here !