The reception area at WeWork 's SoHo - Sheraton House location in London . WeWork LONDON -- WeWork launched in Britain in 2014 and for more than a year ran at a loss , renting out its space for less money in total than it paid to lease the buildings it controlled . Between October 2014 and the end of 2015 , WeWork 's finances looked like this , according to copies of its accounts filed with Companies House : The top and bottom lines suggest that WeWork is renting to its customers for less than what it pays landlords to obtain its offices . But the numbers only show a snapshot in time after WeWork 's UK launch , when the company was spending money to get itself set up here , and before some locations were open to paying customers . The numbers offer a glimpse inside one of the hottest " unicorn " startups on the planet . London is the company 's second largest city . The company was valued at a staggering $ 17 billion ( PS13.1 billion ) at its last investment round . It is funded as if it were a tech startup even though the core of its business is the provision of physical office space . The curiosity around WeWork 's finances are intense : People want to know why a property company is being treated by venture capitalists as if it were a social media app ; they want to know if it is possible to make short - term profits on long - term leases ; and most of all they wonder whether it can ever meet the sky - high valuation that has been laid upon it . WeWork begins paying its leases on the day it signs a contract for a new building , yet it can not accept new " members " as tenants until the building is renovated , a period called the " fit - out . " A fit - out typically takes four to six months , and a WeWork location might not reach 90%-plus occupancy until nine months later , multiple sources familiar with WeWork 's business , both inside and outside the company , told Business Insider . On that basis , WeWork 's business model shows promise . The roof area of WeWork in Soho , London . WeWork Back - of - the - envelope calculations show WeWork 's leases could theoretically generate more rent than their costs : In its 14-month launch " year " in Britain , WeWork 's revenues were 35% less than the cost of its property leases . Thirty - five percent of 14 months is 5 months -- roughly the same time as a typical fit - out . That implies that the rent on a fully occupied WeWork building would break even on its lease before its first full year . Early loss - making periods are typical for new businesses , as companies hire staff and develop their products before going out to find customers . As such , WeWork 's financial numbers look typical for a startup . The company told us it was profitable on its " mature locations " ( buildings open for nine months or more ) . A spokesperson said : " WeWork is stronger than ever . In 2016 , the company doubled its buildings , cities , countries , members and revenue run rate , and tripled gross profit in mature locations . " " In the years 2014 through 2015 ( which this filing reflects ) , WeWork was setting up its business in the UK and investing heavily here . This was a period of intense growth and expansion for the company as we set up our first European locations and operations . " WeWork 's London Fields location has a vintage truck for a reception desk . WeWork Today , WeWork has 2,200 employees , more than 100,000 members , at 140-plus locations in 44 cities worldwide . It has taken $ 3.69 billion ( PS2.85 billion ) in funding from investors such as Benchmark , Fidelity , Wellington , JP Morgan Chase , Goldman Sachs , and Hony Capital . The company was last valued at a reported $ 17 billion . It is that " $ 17 billion " unicorn number that has people like Stratechery analyst Ben Thompson asking questions . In 2015 , when WeWork was reportedly worth " only " $ 10 billion ( PS7.7 billion ) , Thompson said in an email to his clients : " It 's easy to be skeptical : WeWork is for all intents and purposes engaging in arbitrage . It rents commercial real estate at one price ( preferably a low one -- WeWork focuses on new developments where it can be an anchor tenant with its attendant ~10% discount ) chops it up , adds a ping pong table and a beer tap , and rents it out at another significantly higher one . Neat trick , except that Regus [ a traditional property broker ] , with 2,500 locations in 110 countries , does pretty much the same thing and has been valued by the public markets as a $ 3.74 billion company . " WeWork does n't just make money on renting space , however . It also offers various types of services and " community " benefits . The company gives tenants an app store ( in the US ) , offering more than 100 services such as office software , chat apps like Slack , and car rentals . It is those add - ons plus the underlying rent fees that get WeWork to profitability , the numbers suggest . Yes , there is ping pong . WeWork " The reception WeWork has had in the UK has been exceptional and the level of demand in London was apparent immediately , fueling our continued expansion here , " a spokesperson told Business Insider . " In London alone , WeWork has more than doubled the number of locations and members in 2016 , and we plan to do so again in 2017 . Our UK occupancy is at or above 90% marketwide . We continue to see unprecedented strength and diversity in our global member community , which includes entrepreneurs , SMEs and large corporates . We are proud to have Business Insider as a member company in San Francisco . " ( Disclosure : Business Insider is indeed a tenant of WeWork in that city . ) Here is WeWork 's income statement , as filed with Companies House , the UK corporate accounting databank : Companies House The key numbers are : Most of those " operating expenses " are WeWork 's leasing costs -- PS18.3 million -- which are broken out elsewhere : Companies House The bull case for WeWork is that PS13.6 million in total revenue on underlying lease costs of PS18.3 million , in just the first 14 months of business , means that WeWork does n't have to go very far to become profitable and run on its own revenues . The bear case against WeWork is that its leases are believed to be very long -- two sources told us that typical WeWork leases in London are 15 years to 25 years . Payments on such leases tend to increase in increments over time . The obvious question is what happens in a downturn , when demand for office space declines and rental prices go down ? Wo n't WeWork be stuck in a market where the price of rent falls below the level of its leases ? WeWork defenders say that in a recession , larger companies will seek smaller , more flexible working spaces . And laid - off employees will become freelancers and entrepreneurs . They will all need WeWork - type spaces , which rent for the low hundreds of pounds per month . So We Work gets clients on the way up , when demand for office spaces increases , and on the way down , when the demand for smaller , flexible spaces increases . It is also notable that on top of the PS18.3 million in lease costs there were a further PS5.5 million in other running costs . Again , high costs are normal for a company launching from scratch . But still -- these are the numbers that will have to decline in proportion over time , if WeWork is to live up to its reputation . Even if you do not believe that WeWork will be immune from the normal boom - bust cycle of capitalism , it is well - funded , via its US parent . Here is a look at the balance sheet of the UK division . WeWork Companies House Companies House The cashflow statement indicates that WeWork is cashflow positive , but mostly because it borrowed PS56.4 million from its parent company at launch . Companies House The company does not break out its cash from operating activities beyond that PS15 million top line . But , interestingly , its operating cashflow is greater than the revenue it recognises on its income statement - a healthy sign for a growing business . It usually means the company has the power to delay payments where it owes money and get paid first by its customers . ( The income statement is a formal comparison of a company 's costs and revenues ; the cashflow statement examines the actual movement of money through the company . ) Companies operating in the UK must file their accounts with the government annually , but they have a 12 month grace period to do so -- which explains why these numbers are so old . The next set , detailing the 12 months of 2016 , are likely to be filed after the end of this year . They will show more like - for - like revenues on locations that have been open long enough to reach 90% occupancy or " maturity . " Of course , as WeWork is still expanding , they will also contain numbers for new buildings where costs are racing ahead of revenues . The key will be to see whether WeWork can improve its profitability as it grows . If it can do so , then there will be fewer doubters for that $ 17 billion price tag .