Amazon 's India rival , Flipkart , has launched Project Nanjunda , a unique safety initiative for its delivery boys -- the backbone of any ecommerce business . SEE ALSO : India 's ' bigger than Amazon ' online retailer Flipkart gets its third new CEO in 12 months Flipkart field execs , also known as Wishmasters , will now have access to an SOS button on their mobile app . It can work over a normal cellular network without data connectivity , thus making it more viable . Called the Nanjunda Button , it will trigger an alarm to the nearest hub - in - charge in case of an emergency , Flipkart said in a statement .   The project has been named after the deceased Wishmaster , Nanjunda Swamy , who was murdered by a customer when he delivered the package as he wanted to buy a smartphone but did n't have any money . In India , you can order an item online and pay for it at the time of delivery .   Image :   FLIPKART India 's ecommerce sector reportedly employs more than 100,000 delivery boys and has witnessed a 200 - 300% jump in recent years . Flipkart is said to be the biggest employer and operates its own logistics arm , Ekart , which does daily shipments of around 30,000 - 40,000 packages . However , the Bangalore - based startup has often been criticized for not doing enough for its delivery executives , typically boys aged between 18 and 28 years .   In July 2015 , many of the Wishmasters had gone on a strike against poor working conditions . Some , mostly bike - riders , even complained that they were not provided medical assistance in the event of an accident .   Many executives have even refused to deliver in areas like Noida and Ghaziabad close to the national capital where " buyer - end malpractices " are allegedly high . From fake addresses , thrashing and looting delivery boys to not making cash - on - delivery ( COD ) payments and last - minute cancellations , ecommerce firms have a lot at stake . Sometimes delivery boys are ready to trade a good pay for safety . They prefer Delhi over " unsafe " Noida and Gurgaon . Thus , Project Nanjunda is not only timely but also significant .   " Ensuring their safety is a primary priority for us . Over the days following the demise of Wishmaster , Nanjunda Swamy , our teams have worked relentlessly to deliver this feature in less than a month - in order to ensure our field staff is safe while on their delivery trips , " said Nitin Seth , Chief Operating Officer , Flipkart .    