It was a busy and abundant year for seed , crowd , series A , B , C , D and VC funding of robotics - related startups . 128 companies got funded , some multiple times . $ 1.95 billion , 50% more than 2015 which was also a phenomenal year with over $ 1.32 billion   funded . UPDATED 1/30/17 : Added $ 100 million in China - based RooBo , $ 50 million for Israeli Roboteam , $ 9.5 million for Matternet , $ 2 million for area17 , $ 1.5 million for ReActive Robotics GmbH , $ 1.8 million for xCraft and $ 800k for Ascent Robotics . Also added Cafe X Technologies , Fellow Robots and Simbe Robotics to the list of companies receiving an undisclosed amount . Velodyne LiDAR got the most money in 2016 , $ 150 million , with Zymergen and UBTech also getting over $ 100 million each . In monthly recaps by The Robot Report , fundings grew until they peaked in August and then dipped in December . August was the month when Velodyne got their $ 150 million and Quanergy got $ 90 million . The next highest in August was $ 35 million for FormLabs .   The colorful chart on the left recaps the number of companies receiving funding by application area . 25 unmanned aerial systems companies got the biggest number of fundings followed by 15 agricultural robotics startups , service robotics for businesses , service robots for personal use , vision systems providers , self - driving systems and mobile robotics and AGVs companies , plus a whole bunch of smaller categories . Investments in robotic solutions for the ag industry were noted by Rob Leclerc of AgFunder who said : " The number of deals grew 7% year - over - year , as we recorded 307 deals this half compared to 286 during the first half of 2015 . The number of investors coming into the sector climbed 52% from 280 in the first half of 2015 compared with 425 in the first half of 2016 , which suggests that investors are getting more comfortable with the sector . " The following companies were also funded but did n't provide details : Raptor Maps , OnFarm , Appolo Shield , Aarav Unmanned Systems , AIO Robotics , Aloi Material Handling , Aurora Flight Sciences , Kimera Systems , NVBots , OPS - Ingersoll , OptoForce , Cafe X Technologies , Fellow Robots , Simbe Robotics and Square Robot . [ If you have information about robotics - related fundings , or corrections or additions to that which is reported above , please email it to info@therobotreport.com . Thank you . ] < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >