Spain has a lot more to offer than just great weather and delicious food . The largest country in Southern Europe also has a pretty vital startup scene and with Madrid and Barcelona two of Europe 's biggest startup hubs . In the beginning of this year , we took a close look at the Spanish startup ecosystem to provide you with a list of 10 promising startups to watch in 2017 . All of the startups we 're listing below were founded within the last two years and each one of them is -at least in our view- heading towards a successful future . Letgo is the fastest growing mobile marketplace to buy and sell locally , powering a new , secondhand economy on mobile . With offices in Barcelona and New York , Letgo is connecting millions of buyers and sellers . Letgo provides its users with cutting - edge features like image recognition powered by artificial intelligence , and the Letgo Commercializer . Founded in 2015 , Letgo was already able to secure the astonishing amout of rougly $ 375 million in venture capital . Cornerjob 's mission is to help people to find the right job within the shortest timeframe . The Barcelona - based startup provides a job matching platform that enables users to find geolocated job offers , apply to them , chat directly with the recruiters and get an answer in 24 hours . For companies , it represents a great recruiting channel in terms of simplicity , rapidity and flexibility . Founded in 2015 , Cornerjob so far raised about $ 51 million in funding . Glovo : A Barcelona - based startup that is transforming the way consumers access local goods , enabling anyone to get nearly any product delivered in less than 60 minutes . Glovo 's on - demand mobile application connects customers with independent local couriers , who acquire goods from any restaurant or shop in a city and also deliver urgent packages for a fixed fee of 5,50EUR . Glovo , which started in 2015 , is currently available in 6 Spanish cities as well as in Paris and Milan . So far , the ambitious Glovo team raised about EUR7.14 million in venture capital . Badi : Founded in 2015 and based in Barcelona , Badi provides a new way of flat sharing , making city - center living affordable for everyone by changing how flat sharers connect and interact . The platform enables you to list or look for available rooms in shared flats and find flatmates according to your age , tastes and hobbies . Badi is a peer - to - peer marketplace of non - vacational shared flats . The young company raised more than EUR2 million in funding . TravelPerk aims to revolutionize the way that organizations budget , book and manage their business travel . The Barcelona - based startup offers a unique dynamic budgeting algorithm , incentives for employees to save , as well as reporting , dashboards , expense integrations , flexible payments and more . All of that within a single easy - to - use platform and at no cost to the user . TravelPerk was founded in 2015 and secured about $ 8.5 million in venture capital . Comprea is a spanish same day delivery service that lets users order groceries online from their favourites stores . This is done with a custom logistics network of Shoppers , wich allows to deliver as soon as in 1h and in 1 hour time slots . Founded in 2015 , Comprea is already active in Madrid , Valencia and Barcelona . The Valencia - based startup so far secured EUR725 K in funding aims to close another funding round soon in order to expand with its service to other European cities . Hibox is an out - of - the - box solution to handle the three most critical pain points in collaborating with your team : 1 . faster communication ( team messaging ) , 2 . keep track of your projects ( task management ) and 3 . live discussions for remote work or separate offices ( video calls ) . The Barcelona - based startup was founded in 2015 and secured about $ 1 million in seed funding in 2016 . MyTripCar is a car rental comparison and reservation site that aims to revolutionize the sector with a fresh approach and more transparency . The startup was officially founded in 2015 in Alicante and launched its platform in 2016 . MyTripCar is currently available in Spanish , German , English and French . In total , MyTripCar so far secured more than EUR1.5 million in venture capital . B - wom is a digital health startup focusing on women 's intimate health / wellness . As of today , the Barcelona - based company offers an app with personalized care plans , exercises and tracking for pelvic floor with some initial healthy habits and content about health . B - wom plans to expand its health scope to cover all the important moments in a woman 's life . The health startup was founded in 2015 and raised about EUR1 million in funding . Eelp ! is an app to delegate all kinds of daily tasks and needs busy people have . By using the app , Eelpers will take care of everything for you . From taking the car for a wash to pet - sitting your dog while traveling , or getting your hair done before a dinner ( etc . ) . Eelp ! works with local professionals and services to let you have more time for yourself and the ones you care about . The Barcelona - based startup successfuly launched a trial phase in Barcelona by December 2016 and secured about EUR200 K in angel funding in the beginning of 2017 . By the way : If you 're a corporate or investor looking for exciting startups in a specific market for a potential investment or acquisition , check out our Startup Sourcing Service !