Australia and New Zealand have the highest rates of melanoma in the world , according to the Melanoma Institute Australia . An aggressive form of skin cancer , melanoma kills more young Australians aged 20 to 39 years old than any other single cancer , with stats estimating 1 in 14 men and 1 in 24 women in Australia will be diagnosed with melanoma in their life . With the mantras slip , slop , slap and no hat , no play a constant through childhood , it would be fair to say most young Australians in particular are aware of the dangers of the sun and skin cancer , and may have even looked at a spot on their body before and thought they should get it checked out at some point - actually taking the next step and going to the doctor is another story . Taking that next step is crucial , however : if melanoma is identified at an early stage , simple treatment can result in a complete cure . Looking to make it easier than ever is New Zealand healthtech startup Firstcheck , which has created an app through which users can snap a few pictures of a mole they are concerned about , choose a dermatologist or skin specialist to review their case , and receive feedback within three days . The startup was born at a health - focused Startup Weekend in Wellington in 2015 , with the idea coming to cofounder Hayden Laird as his grandfather had just had a melanoma removed and his wife had just had been to a MoleMap clinic , where a patient can have photos of spots taken by nurses and sent to dermatologists for diagnosis . " I thought what if everyone , not just MoleMap nurses , could send photos to skin specialists for review ? There just seemed this huge opportunity to improve access to skin specialists to improve skin cancer outcomes . The missing pieces were the empowering tools needed by people to proactively manage their skin health , " Laird said . Taking the idea for Firstcheck past the Startup Weekend , Laird , cofounder Frank Lachmann , and the growing team first spent time looking to understand telemedicine , best practice in teledermatology , and the regulatory space governing it all across Australia and Australia . " The underlying concept may seem relatively simple , connecting patients with local skin specialists for a remote doctor consultation , but in the medical field , nothing is simple , and at times the regulatory environment and industry , complete with its politics , was daunting , " Laird said . The startup brought on industry advisors including dermatologist Ian Coutts , doctor Tom Mulholland , and health IT and medical advisor Kevin Sheehy to help it navigate the landscape and recruit specialists . " Being a startup from Taranaki , coming from outside the industry , and being cutting - edge , we had the challenge of finding early adopters in a traditionally conservative industry , " Laird admitted . " Then there was the challenge of winning the trust of doctors that have developed a healthy scepticism from all their dealings with pharmaceutical companies . So , there was no room for errors and , in testament to the team , we have had a smooth ride . " The Firstcheck app works by having a user choose whether they want the dermatologist to review a ' Mole ' , ' Rash ' , or ' Other ' , then guiding them to take a photo , first from 20 cm away and again from 10 cm away . The app can be paired with a ' SkinScope ' , a $ 30 alternative to a dermoscope used by dermatologists , which allows for a magnified image to be taken . Once the pictures are taken , the app asks the user to show on a mannequin where on the body the photos were taken , and detail any additional information that may help the dermatologist , such as how long they have had that mole or rash . The user is then asked to pick a specialist , pay the $ 19.95 fee , and then wait for their results , where the dermatologist may urge an in - person consultation for further review or advise the patient around what they should keep an eye on . The app can also be used for ' DIY mole mapping ' , allowing users to take photos of spots and track any new spots or changes . The Firstcheck app and SkinScope launched in New Zealand last November , during Melanoma Awareness Week , and in Australia earlier this year , with the startup having secured NZ$500,000 in funding from angel investors including Catalyst Capital , Angel HQ , and Launch Taranaki . According to Laird , Firstcheck has been adopted by GPs and other health professionals who are using it to submit cases to dermatologists ; beyond the $ 19.95 fee users pay , clinicians are able to set prices between themselves , and as such Firstcheck 's fee varies according to this . " Not every doctor has the same needs , or wants to use Firstcheck in the same way . We have deliberately made the system flexible to accommodate this , " Laird said . Following its Australian launch , Laird said the startup hit 10,000 app downloads ; a few corporates have also made Firstcheck available to employees as part of either their wellness or health and safety programs . A number of health professionals are also recommending to patients the SkinScope to assist with regular checkups between in - person visits , Laird added . Given the prevalence of melanoma and the importance of early detection , there are a couple of others startups working in this space around the world . Amsterdam - founded app SkinVision , for example , has an algorithm analyse a user 's photos to calculate different growth patterns of skin tissues to determine the ' potential chaotic growth of pigmented and non - pigmented skin lesions ' and then provide a green , yellow , or red risk rating . Scientists at Stanford University also announced earlier this year the results of their diagnosis algorithm for skin cancer ; training it to visually diagnose potential cancer through a database of 130,000 images , the algorithm was then tested against 21 board - certified dermatologists . The algorithm matched the performance of dermatologists in its diagnoses of skin lesions , however given it was trained on high - quality medical images rather than smartphone - quality photos , it is not yet ready for consumers . For Laird , however , facilitating diagnosis by an actual professional is key . " Shortcuts put both the patient and clinician at risk . Firstcheck is the first app of its kind and its network of local skin specialists is unique , as is the very affordable SkinScope , " he said . " From the clinician 's perspective , with no software setup costs and an affordable dermoscope , teledermatology , with all its benefits , is now accessible to the everyone , and that 's something Firstcheck is very proud of . "