Sydney - based startup Qwilr announced today that it has raised $ 1.5 million in funding from German SaaS - focused venture capital firm , Point Nine . The deal marks the firm 's first investment into an Australian company . The startup joins a portfolio boasting a number of big startup names , including Unbounce , Zendesk , and Typeform . The raise brings the total funding for the startup to a modest $ 2.1 million since launch , with Qwilr having raised $ 500,000 in 2016 and $ 100,000 upon its launch . The startup is a platform that is transforming the way people interact with and create documents . It does this by completely reimagining what documents are , relative to the time we now live in - a digital world . Qwilr makes it easy for users to turn documents that would otherwise look static into web pages that are data rich and interactive . As the Qwilr team describes it , the platform looks something like what you would get if website building application Squarespace and media platform Medium had a baby . The platform also allows users to further bring their documents to life via actions like embedding videos or creating interactive charts and customer surveys , through to performing more specific workflows like sales processes - including accepting proposals , e - signing , and payments . Still key to the platform is the idea of creating " smart documents " via its data tracking and analytics , with Qwilr helping monitor engagement with content by tracking each view and link click to ensure businesses know where they 're going right - or wrong - with proposals and presentations . The funding will go towards new hires to help further expand the platform 's capabilities and its reach . " We are looking for talent ready for a career challenge in a fast paced , collaborative team . Our company is tackling fascinating , complex problems in design to stay ahead of the curve and we are on the hunt for technically - minded , out - of - the - box thinkers to join us , " said Qwilr cofounder Mark Tanner . The platform is now used by over 40,000 businesses across over 80 countries , and in fact , I have heard many positive things about the organisations cashflow and growth - the company is somewhat of a standout investment for the likes of Sydney Seed Fund and Machdoch Ventures . Attracting Point Nine is a testament to what the Qwilr team has achieved in such a short time ; as part of the investment , the firm 's cofounder and managing partner , Christoph Janz is set to join Qwilr 's board . " Over the last 20 years or so , Word , Powerpoint and PDF documents became the new standard , " said Janz . " I 'm pretty sure that in the next 10 years there will be another paradigm shift . We 're confident that Qwilr can play a key role in building the document of the future and we 're thrilled to be partners on that journey " . The company will use the $ 1.5 million from Point Nine to make a series of strategic hires across its design , engineering and marketing teams , to further its international growth and solidify its position as a major player in web document design .   