Not long ago , it seemed unlikely anyone would be comfortable sleeping in a stranger 's house or riding in their car . That idea is now the foundation of multi - billion dollar companies . To get there , Airbnb and Uber basically commodified trust , largely by allowing users to review each other as a form of accountability and , until now , Australian online jobs marketplace Airtasker followed a similar route . The platform allows people to bid for jobs , like assembling furniture or mounting a television , similar to America 's TaskRabbit .   SEE ALSO : Uber 's SVP of engineering is out after Recode surfaces previous sexual harassment allegation According to Tim Fung , founder and CEO of Airtasker , building accountability from scratch is not always efficient . A partnership announced Tuesday between his company and the Commonwealth Bank of Australia ( CBA ) will aim to import some old - school trust into the gig economy . For joint customers , a " CommBank Identified " badge can be added to their Airtasker profile as part of a pilot program , indicating their name and date of birth have all been verified by the bank . In other words , if you hire " John Smith " to mow your lawn , you can be pretty certain it 's in fact John Smith knocking on your front door . " We do n't necessarily have to try and build trust with people from the ground - up again , " Fung said . " Because I think that these huge databases of information , whether it 's the road and motoring authority , whether it 's the banks , whether it 's other people that you 've worked with -- all these people are storing components of your ' trust or reputation passport . ' "   Brian Fung and Pete Steel . Image :   Airtasker For Fung , trust is a spectrum . When he started Airtasker , he accepted they 'd be the type of place where you 'd hire someone to hand out fliers , but not necessarily to find a babysitter . " As we 've grown , we 've become more ambitious , " he said . " We 've launched police checks this year , which is a badge you can have on your profile , we 've launched the CBA partnership , and we 'll have more . " Pete Steel , executive general manager of digital at CBA , said the opt - in pilot was about " stitching banking and digital economy together . " It allows joint customers to transfer their good standing with the bank to a new digital platform , he suggested , and could extend to similar sharing economy platforms in the future . As well as verifying identity , the badge could indicate other things about your relationship with the bank -- although Steel would n't elaborate on what exactly those would be .   " Maybe you 're a five - star customer , a three star - customer , maybe you have a certain balance sheet with us , " Steel explained . " We 've thought about some of those things but we want it to be customer - driven . " While he could n't say how many customers CBA and Airtasker shared , Steel pointed out the bank has a relationship with almost one in three Australian adults . Airtasker claims to have more than 950,000 users .   That 's a sizeable number who could have misgivings about their financial privacy . The market dominance of CBA also means that checks and balances are essential so that customers with spotty bank histories do n't find their past haunting them on new platforms . " All these people are storing components of your ' trust or reputation passport . ' " Steel said customer comfort was foremost in their mind . " We 're very conscious of wanting to turbo - charge the sharing economy , not really constrain anyone , " he added . Fung also emphasised no financial data would be displayed on the site . Of course , the pilot also begs the question : should the banks be the arbiters of trust for the gig economy when Australians do n't always trust them ? A 2016 study by Ernst & Young found that only 36 percent of traditional bank customers in Australia had complete trust in their provider .   Steel pushed back on the bank 's bad press . " Fundamentally people still have , I think , a very good view of the bank and the role we play , " he said . " For both someone like Airtasker and us to do this sort of partnership , we not only shake hands , we think about the brand affinity as well -- is it a natural pairing that customers will find appropriate ? " As banking gets shaken up by fintech startups , he believes there may be an additional role for financial institutions in providing , as Fung put it , a " trust passport . "   " Trust and security are right at the centre of who we are -- it 's one of the things a bank should do well , " Steel said . " We certainly are in a good position where we know a third of adult Australians . And so how can we help them grow their businesses and meet financial goals in this emerging digital economy ? "  