Neil Vogel , the CEO of About.com . Courtesy of Neil Vogel Update : About.com announced on Tuesday , May 2 that it 'd be changing its name to " dotdash ' after 18 years operating under another name . In our April podcast with CEO Neil Vogel , he explained how he arrived at that rebranding decision after two years of observing media trends and making the wrong choices . Here 's the interview , which was first published in late April , below . About.com launched in 1997 . It used to be one of the world 's most visited websites . Today , internet entrepreneur and investor Neil Vogel has been tasked with saving the IAC - owned dot - com brand from extinction . " I got a phone call from Joey Levin , who is the CEO of IAC . He asked , ' What do you think of About.com ? ' " Vogel said during a recent interview with Business Insider . " My answer -- in perfect arrogance -- was ' I do n't . ' Who thinks of About.com ? Nobody . " Levin persuaded him to come in for a job interview anyway , and Vogel walked out convinced he could help turn the company around . Now he is CEO of About.com , and to save it he 's trying something that sounds crazy . He 's shutting down the entire website in early May. In its place , he 's launching a half - dozen new sites . " This is either going to work and be a great success or we 're going to crash the plane as we 're flying it and this is going to be a horrible failure , " Vogel says he told IAC . So far , the radical plan seems to be working . We spoke with Vogel about the turnaround , and , before that , how he founded the Webby Awards , which have been dubbed " the Oscars of the internet . " On an episode of " Success ! How I Did It , " a Business Insider podcast about the careers of accomplished and inspiring people , Vogel also explained how a cross - country road trip in a Ford Bronco changed his life . You can listen to this episode below . Subscribe to " Success ! How I Did It " on Acast or iTunes . Check out previous episodes with : Following is a transcript of the conversation , edited for clarity and length . Alyson Shontell : About.com is a 250-person media company that you 've revived . It was a dot - com baby , founded in 1996 . Neil Vogel : Nineteen ninety - six . We 're 20 years old . We 're not a baby -- we 're not even adolescent . We 're like a full - fledged millennial . Shontell : You 've been a venture partner at Firstmark Capital . You 've created a company that made awesome events like Internet Week and the Webby Awards , which have been called " the Oscars of the internet . " Vogel : I 've done a lot of things . I 'm old , man -- I 'm old . Shontell : Let 's go back to when you were young and hungry . How did you start this career ? Investment banking , right ? Vogel : I listened to your podcast with [ Bustle and Bleacher Report founder ] Bryan Goldberg and he talked about this , but when I got out of college , which was in 1992 -- I went to Penn -- the only things seemingly you could do were become an investment banker , a consultant , or a brand manager somewhere . And I did n't do any of those things . For a year I took an internship at IMG , the big sports agency , which I was terrible at , and I hated it . After seven months , I went back to my roots and was an investment banker . I was a banker for five or six years . I very quickly learned that I admired and respected my clients a lot more than my bosses . I did not want to be some dude eating Chinese food in the office on Sunday night at 7:30 making a model for someone else 's business . That , to me , seemed stupid . It seemed to me like I wanted to be the guy the model 's being made for , which makes some sense . I ended up leaving and going to work with a couple of guys who started a company called Alloy -- or Alloy Media Marketing , for you internet 1.0 people . I was the sixth person there . We ended up growing to be a $ 300 million - revenue business -- very profitable . It went public and had a really good run . Shontell : What was it like back in the dot - com days for people who might be too young to remember ? Vogel : It 's hard to describe . We were kids . We were 27 , 28 , 29 when Alloy went public . We were just playing business with other people 's money . And it felt irresponsible , but we tried really hard . We worked incredibly hard . The founder of the company , Matt Diamond , was incredibly smart . He was always very focused on building a business that made money . We always made money so we did n't have the outcome of a lot of 1.0 guys . We ended up being pretty successful . But it just was crazy . Everything was at hyper speed . Nobody knew anything . We were the first at everything we did . It was really fun . Ultimately , I wanted to run my own thing . I left , took a year off , and , with a partner , started a business called Recognition Media . We ended up owning and producing nine or 10 different award shows and events , including the Webby Awards , and we started Internet Week , which we subsequently sold . Shontell : Before we get into that , I want to discuss the time you spent in between jobs . You did a cool soul - searching experiment in which you bought a truck and you drove across the country . Vogel : I did . I took , like , almost a year off . Shontell : Tell me about this crazy road trip that changed your life . Vogel : I do n't know -- I was 32 , single , and we just had this reasonably good outcome . I had no responsibilities and no expenses . I had a dumb rental apartment . So I bought an old Ford Bronco , took the roof off and drove around for a summer . My father gave me great advice . He said , " Look , you 're in a position where you do n't have kids , you do n't have anything . Go get yourself bored and figure out what you want to do . " For a couple of months I was trying really hard to think about it and figure it out . Then I decided to not think about anything . Believe me , I know it 's an incredible luxury to be able to do that . I did n't think about anything , and then everything became clear . It 's an amazing feeling to have no responsibilities . Just " What am I going to do ? Oh , I 'm going to drive here and visit my friend . " Or " I 'm going to get on a plane , go to Europe , and hang out . " It was amazing . I was at the beach with some friends before Labor Day weekend in 2004 . I had n't done anything for the whole summer . I was n't even checking email . I panicked because I had hit maximum boredom . I got in this truck and I drove back to Manhattan on the Thursday before Labor Day weekend . When everybody was going out to go the beach and have fun , I got on a plane , flew to LA to where my business partner was , and we wrote a business plan , and that became the business that was the Webby Awards and Recognition Media . I tell people it was the best thing I 've ever done in my whole life . Shontell : You 're on the beach , you realize " Oh my gosh , I actually miss work . I want to do more . I want to do something . " You have this idea . Had you done anything with events before ? Vogel : No , nothing . Zero things . Shontell : You just thought it would be a fun thing to start . Vogel : We actually started the company by buying a very small business . Before I dropped off the face of the earth , I talked to a lot of smart media people I knew . And a guy called us with an opportunity . He said , " You can buy this thing called the Telly Awards , " which was a little award show based in Ashland , Kentucky . He found this business in an ad in the back of The Wall Street Journal . He read it , then he clipped it and faxed it to me . I took a look and said , " Wait a minute . This is a database of creative professionals who are all doing internet things and need recognition for their work . " If you make TV commercials , who says whether you are doing a good job or not ? You need third - party validation . We did some research , found out there were a million of these little awards around . If we bought this first one and figured it out , we could probably do a bunch more and make this work . That 's what we did . I flew to LA to do the work on this Telly Awards thing that we then raised a little bit of money and bought a few months later . Foursquare cofounder Dennis Crowley at the 2011 Webby Awards . Flickr / Eddie Codel Shontell : What exactly are the Webby Awards , and how did they become this glamorous thing ? Vogel : We bought the Telly Awards and we 'd had some success with it . Then , we found out the Webby Awards were owned by IDG , the big media company . They started this award show in the ' 90s in San Francisco that got some traction . But it kind of went out of business . For two years they did n't have the show . But they had the brand . We approached them and said , " Guys , we want to buy this from you . " The business model is , people pay to enter , and we get lots of corporate sponsors and have a show . The first year we had 800 entries , mainly all from the United States . By the time we were done with it [ seven years later ] it was about 14,000 entries from 60 countries . It 's the award , the Cannes Lions , or the Oscars for people who do internet stuff . We built a brand really , really stealthily . We did it by just making sure the brand was impeccable , that the most important , most influential people liked it . And we did it all online at a time when that felt really weird to people . Shontell : So it 's a once - a - year event . How much money can you make from an event like that ? Vogel : I ca n't really tell you exactly how much . You can figure out the math . The more people who enter , the better off this thing is . Then you 're connecting really big corporate sponsors with very tight , very engaged audiences that are super valuable . We can put you in front of 2,000 people who make the best stuff in the world every year . That 's a really valuable thing . Shontell : Was it ever hard ? Vogel : Everything is hard . It 's impossible . It tells as a super - elegant story . No , but this is impossible . Everything was a disaster . We had eight offices . We could n't get anything right . We made so many mistakes . The nature of the internet is it 's very forgiving . You ca n't really make that big a mistake . The interesting thing about a business that is an award show is it 's once a year . Now , at About.com , we can make changes that are instant tomorrow . At the Webby Awards , you make a change , it takes a year to see if that worked . You learn how to manage businesses differently because you have a full - year cycle , which is often very annoying . We made every mistake a startup can make . Shontell : Despite that , someone did come in and buy a big chunk of it . Vogel : Yeah , we were happy . I 'm still on the board . Then I transitioned to Firstmark Capital , where I have a bunch of friends who are investors . Shontell : They 've got early - stage investments and things like Pinterest , Airbnb , and Draft Kings . Vogel : I spent probably a year hanging out with those guys , and I learned so much in that year from just sitting and listening to their process . The first thing I learned is I 'm a terrible investor . I like the quick wits of running businesses . But the long lead time and thoughtfulness required to have a thesis and invest against it and follow up is just not my jam . About.com Shontell : So you started to get bored and then IAC called you . IAC owns About.com . Vogel : Yes . So About.com was owned by The New York Times . They owned it for five or six years . IAC -- Barry Diller and crew -- bought it for about $ 300 million at the end of 2012 . Shontell : Significantly less than The Times paid for About.com . Vogel : It is less than The Times paid , which is less than Prime Media paid before them . I think it 's widely known , but About was a mess at that point . It was still one of the 20 biggest sites on the internet , but there had been a lot of neglect . IAC , who 's very opportunistic in buying things , said , " OK , this still does a lot of revenue . It has 100 million users a month . We 're pretty sure we can do something cool with it . " So they bought it . Shontell : There was a bidding war for it too . Answers.com wanted it . Vogel : There was a very quick bidding war that they won . I think the entire cycle was seven days , which is crazy when you think about how that works . Probably five or six months after they owned it . I was n't there , so I ca n't say this definitively , but I can guess . I think it was a bit of a bigger mess than they thought . I got a phone call from Joey Levin , who is now the CEO of IAC . He might deny it went this way , but it very much went this way . He calls me -- Joey 's a very direct character -- and he says , " What do you think of about.com ? " My answer -- in perfect arrogance was -- " I do n't . Who thinks of about.com ? Nobody . It 's a thing with these blue links on it . I do n't think about About.com . " He says , " Come in and talk to me about it . " I go in and talk to him about it . I thought he wanted me to help him find someone to run it . I went into his office , and the next thing I know , I 'm going home with a stack of information . I 'm thinking , " Ugh , I 'll look through it , I guess . " By the time I got through it , I had a full mental turnaround on what this thing could be . I was definitely like the 25th person they talked to . Shontell : It was founded in the search era , right ? There was no social or Facebook driving a ton of traffic . It was all the good old days of Google search traffic . Vogel : It 's all Google search . The model was -- this is important to note because it took us a bit to figure out -- the model was the same thing as AOL , or the same thing as MSN , or the same thing as Yahoo . It was a big general information site . In our case , we made the content ourselves with experts . They made content different ways . But it was a big general information site . I decided I would ... I 'm like , " OK , you know what ? I 'm going to do this . " I went and I signed up to do it , and a little bit of the reason was the " you ca n't fall off the floor " reason . I 'm not going to be the guy who ruined About.com . It 's already ruined , so this is all upside here . Ethan Miller / Getty Shontell : What do you think of Marissa and Yahoo ? Vogel : We can actually talk about that . We have point of view on that , which is part of how we decided to do what we did . We actually have a strong point of view on that . I 'll make this story a little shorter here . I joined , and within a year we took the employees from 150 to 250 . Every person , with the exception of one or two above senior director was new . We have 250 people now , and there are probably 10 who were there before we got there . When I got there , I could n't tell you how many ads we served the day before . I could n't tell you how many visits we . It was just a mess . We got there and spent the first year building a data - science team so we can understand what was going on . Building a sophisticated programmatic ad stack because our site kind of looks like crap . It 's very hard for us to sell premium stuff . So we 're going to start selling programmatic things like moving away from some other monetization things . We used a lot of Google ads and we have to not do that . Users do n't really like that at scale . Hired a bunch of smart people . I basically went and drove the " A - Team " van around New York and was like , " I know you , you 're great . We 've worked together . Come join us ! " I think people got excited about the chance to fix an iconic internet . A year and a half into it , we launch a brand - new site and rewrote every line of code . We had code from the ' 90s in there . We put forth the new About.com and everyone was excited . We stopped the decline . We started to make more money , traffic stopped going down . We could go to a cocktail party with a straight face and say , " Look at this things . " We had some pride in what we were doing and it was making some sense . We felt good , and then six months later we 're still in the exact same spot and we 're like , " Ugh , why is this not growing ? " Again , at this time , everyone 's really happy with us . IAC is happy with us . Probably a year after we launched , we went back to IAC , and this was the scary moment , this was like the big move , and said , " Guys , everything we did was wrong . We 're doing it wrong . " Shontell : How did you come to that ? It just stalled ? Vogel : It goes back to your Marissa question . We realized that our fundamental model of what we were doing was wrong . Our value is we have this great content that advertisers will like and consumers like , but nobody cares about a general - information site anymore . You have three constituencies when you 're a publisher : advertisers , consumers , and people who send you traffic ( basically algorithms ) . And it turns out that if you play tennis this weekend and hurt your knee , you do n't want your " why my knee hurts " advice from About Health . You want it from WebMD or Everyday Health . We 're like , " Oh , point . " If your router breaks at home , you do n't want that from About Tech ; you want that from EnGadget or The Verge or someone how to fix it . Advertisers ? We heard this constantly : " Your data is great , your scale is great , we like your content , but you 're not endemic , so we 're not working with you . " They want head - of - household moms , and they make computers , but they would not give us any money . And then the other problem was algorithms . Google and Facebook and those guys no longer knew what to make of us . You ca n't have , " Symptoms of Colitis " content on the same domain that you have " How to Unclog My Drain . " On the same domain you have , like , " How to Cook Beer - Battered Chicken " and " How to Fix My Tendinitis . " Shontell : It kind of works for Wikipedia , though . Vogel : We 'll talk about that in a second . It 's a little bit different . For a site like us ... Wikipedia 's traffic is going down , by the way , from search , because they 're not specific . If you have colitis , you 'd rather go to a colitis - specialty place than Wikipedia . They 're losing also . We came to the realization that we needed to do something . We went back to IAC and to that meeting and said , " Here 's what we 're going to do : We 're going to turn this place from AOL or Yahoo or MSN , and I 'm going to turn this into Conde Nast or Vox . And that 's what we 're going to do . This is either going to work and be a great success or we 're going to crash the plane as we 're flying it and this is going to be a horrible failure . But we 're betting , because our content is good , because we still have search traffic , because we know how to play social , that we 're betting that we can do this . " And IAC -- because they 're not a media company , they 're an internet company ; it 's a huge difference that I 've learned -- they basically said " Do it . Do it . Go ahead , take the chance . Roll the dice and do it . We 'd rather have the outcome that you are the next Conde Nast than have the outcome that is now , which is we 're going sideways . " Barry Diller , head of IAC , knows how to take risks . Michael Seto / Business Insider Shontell : That sounds like it makes a lot of sense . But there is huge risk involved with a move like that . Vogel : Existential risk . We could have literally gone to zero . Shontell : Yes , because you have , what , over 100 million people visiting About.com ? Vogel : Yeah , about that . Shontell : And you 're talking about all these new properties that have to start from scratch , right ? Then what 's left for About.com ? Vogel : What we said was , we 're going to take pieces of About.com , we 're going to break them off and make these new brands , and then when we 're done , About.com is going to go away . As of May 2 , we 're announcing a new brand name for all of overarching brand for our brands , and About.com is going away . Shontell : This site that had 100 million - plus readers , you just canned . Vogel : We did n't can it yet , but we 're canning it in six weeks . Again , because we 've now made five different , sites that if you add them up have more users than About.com had . That was the trick . Shontell : How long did that take ? Vogel : We 've done it over the last 12 months . The story of the first one is an easy one to tell . Shontell : Within a year you 've built four new brands that now are bigger than About.com ever was . Vogel : In aggregate , when you add up all the things , not ever was , because that was humongous , but we are -- our traffic now , we have more traffic now with four of our five brands launched . So four brands in the market , one brand still under the About.com name . We have more traffic now than we had a year ago , two years ago , when we were just About.com . Here 's what we did : The first thing we wanted to launch is we wanted to launch ... We launched a health brand called Very Well . We dove right into the pool . Health is our most valuable , most - trafficked , biggest vertical , so we came up with an idea . Our content is very much in the style of like WebMD or Everyday Health . But we thought those sites , we just did n't think they have served a market need . We thought that we could make a beautiful , kinder , gentler health site . You go to these some of other sites with a headache , you think you have a brain tumor . You come to us with a headache , we 're going to make your headache feel better and explain why you had a headache and make it better . That was the thesis . So we took our 100,000 pieces of health content of About.com , threw 50,000 in the garbage because they were old . We did n't like them . The other 50 [ thousand ] were read by our writers . If it was medical information ; it was read by a doctor . We had 30,000 pieces of content read by physicians , edited , cleaned up . Built a brand - new site from scratch , a new taxonomy for our content , put it on the site . We did that . We built this beautiful new site from scratch , everything from scratch . Took design , product , content , tech , everyone , walled them off . You now work for Very Well ; you do n't work for About anymore . You work for Very Well . Shontell : The About people who remained were no longer able to write about beauty and health or about -- Vogel : Yeah , we moved the health stuff all to Very Well . Health is now gone from About.com , and we launched it in April . Shontell : You see , instantly , a ton of traffic to About.com , I 'm sure , go away . Vogel : Terrifying . Really , you have to compare all of About.com to now About.com , plus Very Well , right ? So here 's what happens , a lot of , more , probably at the time , 70% of our traffic was from search . Three weeks after we did this -- Shontell : No search traffic , I 'm sure . Vogel : No , what you can do ... the trick is making the search traffic move to your new place . We built a new site with a new taxonomy so every URL over here gets redirected to one over here . A month after we launched this thing , our health traffic , which is our most valuable traffic , was down . Traffic was in like 45% or 50% . But we 're like , " OK , we 're just going to hold on and we 're already halfway done doing our next vertical . " All of a sudden , Facebook , Google , all the domains figure it out . As of now , today , I think our health brand has -- I 'm going to get this slightly wrong because I always get numbers slightly wrong -- I think we had 8 million uniques when we started a month , I think we have 17 million uniques now to Very Well . So we 've pretty much doubled in size in 12 months . We 're by far the fastest - growing thing in the health space . I think we 're No . 4 or 5 on comScore on health because our bet was right ... We knew that this would work . Then we launched something in the summer . Ran a very similar playbook on our personal - finance content called The Balance , which has pretty much doubled in traffic since we launched it this summer . We launched something called Life Wire in November , which is our evergreen - content tech site -- how to fix my router , how to unbrick my iPhone . We launched three weeks ago , about a month ago something called The Spruce , which is the third - biggest home site on the internet , only behind HGTV and the Hearst Brands . We had such scale on About , that we 're launching these new brands into the world that are new to the space with no legacy issues , look like start ups , but all of a sudden , like we 're top 10 in comScore because we 're coming with such scale . The market 's like , " What ? Where do you guys come from ? " And we have one more site to launch , called Trip Savvy , which we 're launching right after we change our name . We 're now going to change the name of the company May 2 . Shontell : So as a collection of sites , how much traffic do you guys have ? Vogel : More than we started . I think -- I do n't know -- last month ... internally , I think comSquare was like 60 million last month or something . So we got a lot of scale . We 're around the same size as you guys . I think internally we 're like 100 million . VeryWell is one of the new websites Neil Vogel has launched at About.com . Very Well Shontell : So , for a while it was great to be a site that was all - encompassing , had all this scale , you know , the Yahoos , MSNs , and you . Are you 're saying that that 's no longer the case and that the future is to go niche ? Vogel : It does n't work . Yeah , it does n't . I just think everybody wants expert -- Shontell : The scale days are over ? Vogel : You see it in the mall , right ? There 's no place for a department store . People do n't want that anymore . People want things that are specialty . I think the other people in our position -- Shontell : Except for Amazon . Vogel : Except for Amazon . But there 's always a place for that . There 's a place for Amazon and Target and Wal - Mart , cause they 're competing on price , or service , or something . Not on expertise . And that 's more of like a retail thing . But in content , you generally want content from someone you believe is an expert in that . That trends toward being an expert in like , a domain of content , which trends toward being vertical . And I think different people have made really interesting decisions about this . I think AOL has made a brilliant decision . We looked at our content and said , " All right , we make really premium content in these very premium areas . " AOL looked at their type of content and said , " You know what , this is content that is probably going to be best served by programmatic ad selling . " Cause of the type of content it was , not that it 's good or bad , it just is . They built an unbelievable ad stack , they assembled properties that work like this . And it totally worked , and they crushed it . And now they 're like Target . Like it totally works for them , and now that 's why Yahoo makes sense . I think MSN did n't want to deal . And Yahoo made a different decision . Like we looked at what we were doing and said , " We make money one way . We sell ads against content . And we 're doing it wrong , but that 's the fundamental model that works for us . " Yahoo wanted to become something completely different , that I do n't think anyone totally understands exactly what the thesis was . And I think that 's why it did n't work . I think the AOL - Yahoo combo is gon na be great . It 's gon na be great for advertisers . If it works it 's gon na be like a legitimate third option to the big two . And I think they took the right approach to content . Shontell : The big two being Facebook and Google . The Duopoly . Vogel : The Duopoly . No media buyer in the world wants there to be only two places to buy stuff from . Look , it 's really dangerous and they 're growing like crazy but ... If you make valuable content , and you give people a really great experience , there is a place for you in the world . When you 're general , like when you 're the old About.com , there might not have been a place for us in that world . Because it just does n't work . But when you 're Very Well or The Balance , and when you 're like a mutual - fund company that needs to advertise against people who are specifically looking for mutual fund information , we 're an unbelievable resource for them . That 's better than like guessing someone wants mutual funds on Facebook . Shontell : So one thing you mentioned is that with AOL and Yahoo merging under Verizon , you think it 'll be great . And could maybe challenge these guys . And that 's a mega - merger . Vogel : That 's a big one . Shontell : You know , all these huge companies coming together under Verizon . Do you think that 's going to keep happening , and is that is your goal with About , to build it up to a point where you could join and be a power player in a big mega - merger like this ? Vogel : I do n't know . I think if you look at the history of IAC they , you know , the market we have is $ 5 billion or $ 6 billion , but the value of the companies that have come out of IAC are , what , like $ 50 billion or $ 60 billion . So there is a history at IAC of being the builder , not the buildee . And if we do this right , we have a really interesting opportunity to build something great . Shontell : So one kind of different question for you , what 's Barry Diller like ? Vogel : First of all , he 's great . He does not suffer fools . There 's something incredible frustrating that happens when you deal with him in that you 'll be in a meeting with him , or you 'll get some feedback from him via email , or secondhand , or you 'll talk to him directly . And he will say something to you that , at the time , you will be like , " I do n't what ? " Because you 're like an arrogant CEO and you 're like , " I ... I ... I know better about my business than he does . What 's he talking about ? " And then a day later , you 're like in the shower , and you realize , like , " Ugh , he was totally right . He was a thousand percent right . " There 's nothing he hasn't seen or been through , and he has this really unique way , which I think you do , when you sit in his perspective , of just looking at our problems or issues and just ignoring the nonsense , and like , bam . Like right to it . And sometimes by getting right to it you do n't understand that right away , because you 're too in the weeds , or you 're busy running the business . But he just like , nails it . And he 's great to work for . He does not suffer fools , there 's not a lot of , like , nonsense . But it 's awesome to work for someone that , and this does n't happen a lot . Shontell : Very true . So to wrap this all up , if you had to say the one thing you 've had a lot of different lives in your careers . In all of them you 've found success . So what do you think is the one common thread that has made you successful in all of these different areas and , ultimately , in your career ? Vogel : I 'm annoyingly relentless when I believe in something . When I was a banker , I figured out that you 'll be much better at doing something if you 're passionate about it . And it 's not saying like , " My great passion in life is to build publishing companies , " or " My great passion in life is to build award shows . " But if you believe in what you 're doing and you can get excited about it , you 're gon na be a thousand times better . And I 'm really direct and I 'm really honest with people , which does n't always work that well . But if people always know where they stand with you , you will always know where you stand with them . And I think that 's really valuable .