How much of your time is actually spent on productive pursuits ? Probably a lot less than you think . A recent Singlehop survey of IT pros revealed that those professionals spent only 36 percent of their average workweek on new projects and proactive tasks . That means they likely spend 64 percent of that same workweek on ongoing projects and routine functions . Wasting time like this is n't a problem unique to IT pros : Even at the C - suite level , according to a McKinsey report , 20 percent of the average CEO 's time is spent on tasks that could be classified as ordinary to the point of automatic -- jobs like status report reviews and staff assignments . For decades , we have looked forward to a future where artificial intelligence handled these kinds of routine tasks for us . McKinsey estimates say that only 5 percent of jobs could be handled entirely by AI , but as many as 60 percent of today 's professional categories could outsource up to 30 percent of their workload to AI . That statistic reflects an exciting prospect for small - to - mid - sized businesses trying to stretch their resources as far as possible . But automating routine tasks is just part of what AI can do in a business setting . Simply letting machines handle the most basic jobs could have a powerful effect on efficiency , output and even morale . And those are all great results . But the potential for transformation extends much further . AI is designed to cure efficiency . Already , the AI technology that 's out there can understand and learn from basic tasks to such an extent that it can find ways to eliminate those tasks . For instance , AI can already implement human speech and text in a company 's mailroom or call center to handle simple information - sharing tasks that used to fall on human representatives . At present , some 10,000 developers are working on chatbots for Facebook Messenger alone . A variation on those same capabilities allows machines to scan , identify and analyze physical objects . Expertise that used to be exclusive to professionals , such as that of engineers and technicians , can now be optimized through the capabilities of machine learning . Finally , on the grandest scale , AI can be used to identify complex patterns that inform business intelligence , marketing , operations , logistics and everything else at the foundation of a company . It 's not a stretch to imagine a point in the near future where AI will be at the very core of how businesses operate . AI , then , has an obvious appeal for entrepreneurs . But company executives worry that AI implementation on any scale will be too expensive , complex and disruptive to reap any real value -- and that 's a valid concern but also one that underscores the need for companies to embrace AI responsibly . Entrepreneurs need to welcome AI into their organizations in a way that 's measured and thoughtful . If you look at everything through an AI lens , it 's easy to assume every problem needs an AI solution , but that is hardly the case . Executives must look at their operations holistically and determine where AI can bring the most value . Here are three questions that will help you determine how AI can best serve your business : 1 . " What problems can I rule out ? " Again , AI is n't the magical answer to all of a company 's problems . At least in its current form , AI is not a form of consciousness -- it does not have the mental flexibility and common sense that are essential to human decision - making . Rather , it 's a form of soft intelligence . While it can learn on a basic level , AI does n't rise to the level of human intelligence or pose a meaningful threat to human workers . Once you understand what you ca n't solve with AI , you 'll see just what you can . Take think tank Jigsaw , for example . The Google - affiliated organization is helping police offensive speech on the internet by cracking down on threatening remarks and slurs in websites ' comment sections . As capable as Jigsaw is , it 's not intelligent enough to recognize the context behind conversation and might make inaccurate decisions . That said , however , Jigsaw can recognize and act on the most serious and toxic comments and has the potential to grow these abilities in the future . 2 . " What processes can be made more efficient ? " Unlike the largest tech companies , you do not have to make eight - figure investments in AI . In fact , that kind of financial enthusiasm might be your worst enemy . Rather than try to integrate AI into all your processes , find the ones where it can have the biggest , fastest and most seamless effect , saving you the most time . Think of your day - to - day and week - to - week schedules : What tasks feel repetitive or even mind - numbing ? Which do you wish you could get off your plate ? There 's a good chance AI can relieve you of them . For instance , Salesforce 's AI platform , Einstein , automates the company 's data entry for customers -- a task that used to be done   by human employees . Einstein 's general manager told Techcrunch that the goal here is to save employees time , so they can focus on " what really matters " in their roles . 3 . " How will artificial intelligence affect my ROI ? " Even after understanding AI 's potential to streamline your operations , you have to consider your bottom line . Some technologies may lead to lots of improvements but still increase complexity . And that comes with higher costs . The result : Even if your processes become more efficient , you 're losing money . Other AI - based changes may be less transformative but much easier to implement and operate . In that case , you 'll be making a smaller improvement overall , but seeing less time wasted . Even these small - scale implementations can create a big effect . For example , Persado , a cognitive content software firm , has developed algorithms that analyze clients ' customer - facing communication through AI . Analyzing and refining something as seemingly small as a subject line has created dramatic lifts in the company 's client email marketing impressions . AI is already changing the way companies operate . And advances in technology make it a tool that 's already available to organizations in nearly every industry and at every stage of growth . Thinking critically about how this tool can serve you will put AI well within your reach . K.R. Sanjiv is the chief technology officer for Wipro , a global information technology , consulting and outsourcing company . Sanjiv has more than 25 years of enterprise IT experience , including consulting , application developm ...