The latest autonomous robots to hit the streets with food delivery orders are from Marble , a San Francisco startup that is partnering with Yelp to navigate crowded city streets and deliver your pad thai before it gets cold . Marble 's robots are about waist - height , a bit larger than the dog - sized models of its competitor Starship . They 're also brimming with technology borrowed from self - driving cars . Each Marble delivery bot -- there are a few of them cruising the streets of San Francisco 's Mission and Potrero Hill neighborhoods -- includes lidar , cameras and ultrasonic sensors to monitor their surroundings . The idea is that they can avoid pedestrians and safely use crosswalks by relying on the sensor data to locate themselves on the super - accurate 3D maps that Marble is building . The company says it plans to map the majority of San Francisco 's sidewalks over the coming year . That map - assisted approach is the same approach that many automakers are taking for self - driving cars , too , including Cadillac 's upcoming Super Cruise system . Visitors and San Francisco residents can order delivery from Yelp 's Eat24 app for a chance to be served by a Marble bot . If you 're selected , you 'll be offered the opportunity to accept the service and the restaurant will then pack your order into one of the robots ' cargo bays . Once it arrives , you 'll enter an access code to unlock your breakfast , lunch or dinner . Although delivery robots are still relatively rare , the Marble - Yelp partnership comes as the technology is ripening and the market is heating up . In January , Starship announced partnerships with DoorDash and Postmates to deliver food and other goods within a four - mile range . Last month , Starship also began delivering pizza from Domino 's locations in Germany and the Netherlands . If those trials are successful , Domino 's could expand the service to more of its 2,000-plus stores worldwide . Tom is PCMag 's San Francisco - based news reporter .  