Any parent will admit that tackling a professional career while raising children is challenging , to say the least .   The majority of workplaces do n't comprehensively support parents , new or otherwise , meaning there 's often not enough time to juggle the responsibility of looking after a child versus progressing in a career . While many fathers are affected , this issue remains of particular concern for mothers in particular .   Looking to help fix this problem , Western Australian entrepreneur Elio Adragna and his team have developed an app to help stay - at - home mothers connect with others in their local area and offer each other their professional services . The idea for the platform came as Adragna , who originally worked as a chemical engineer in Italy , saw his wife take on the challenges facing women who take on the responsibility of looking after a child at home . " Society today is structured where if you become a parent , almost everything is against you . If you want to take leave from work and come back , it 's often difficult , " he said . As women in particular are constantly warned , parents leaving the workplace to raise a child at home , even temporarily , often puts them ' behind ' others who continue to work , as they 're not able to progress their career or continue to enhance their professional skills .   As he saw his own wife experience this , Adragna saw an opportunity to help stay - at - home mothers continue to practice their professional skills , by offering them to other mothers . By putting into practice their professional skills through Jugglr , Adragna explained that users will be better equipped to re - enter the workplace in the future if they choose , while the app also gives them an opportunity to begin developing their own business from home .   Either way , he believes exchanging services through the app helps develop a support network for mothers that is more accessible than the traditional meetup group networks . The app works by having the identity of a new user verified by at least one existing Jugglr user . After this , a social media scan is undertaken for further verification .   Once on the app , a mother is able to see a list of other users nearby through a map or list view . From here , the user is able to select another and view their profile , revealing what service they 're looking for and what work they have to offer .   " You can then chat with that person to organise stuff . For example , I 'd like to exchange personal training for music lessons , " explained Adragna .   Exchanges are n't always service - for - service based , however , as mothers are able to offer their skills to other users for money . In this case , Jugglr will take a percentage as a fee . The app provides a marketplace with search categories that allows users to find a mum offering a particular skill , which , according to Adragna , can involve almost anything .   Personal training , teaching a language , psychiatry sessions and catering food were just a few of the services named as examples , with Adragna explaining , " The fact that a user can access a specific service is what keeps them coming back . " He said , " It 's not just simple favours you can offer , but really detailed skills . The more services there are , the more reason for mums to come back . " The user who creates a job ad is able to specify the price they 're looking for , with this able to be negotiated through the app 's messaging system . If a job is selected the user is directed to the ' to - do list ' section , which allows them to track and organise any service they 've offered or selected . Here a user can pay , rate other users , look at data , organise a place to meet , and keep track of what skills you 're offering or need . To help bolster the reliability of the network , if a user receives a substantially low score after a service is completed , the Jugglr team will investigate the report to see why it happened by contacting either user . Like all connection platforms , the app also allows its user to flag , block , or report another user . The idea of Jugglr helping women on the road to starting their own business is an interesting one ; as the rise of the term ' mumpreneur ' has shown , it 's becoming a popular concept .   Despite being all about women and aimed at women , there are no women in the app 's founding team . However , discussing how the features , content , and design of the app were formulated , Adragna said the wives of all the cofounders were fundamental in the development process .   " We would n't be able to achieve or shape anything in Jugglr without our respective wives , " he said . While this feedback may have been key , however , one could surely be forgiven for thinking it does n't quite equate to having a women as part of the startup 's core team .   Launched mid-2016 , Adragna said there are around 3,000 users on Jugglr . As it looks to grow this number , Jugglr has been invited by Austrade to participate in a pitching event at SXSW festival in Austin in March .