Portugal has extended a hand to Indian entrepreneurs with a new visa program that will facilitate access to the Portuguese market for startup founders .   At a bilateral summit in January , Portugal did something that lots of other nations appear to be turning against by initiating a policy to increase immigration and boost the Portuguese economy . Fancy . Portuguese prime minister Antonio Costa said , " Portugal has a long tradition of tolerance and openness to the world , something that has been recognized internationally . The capacity of interaction between people of different origins , cultures and religions is part of the DNA of Portugal . " Part of a trip to India by prime minister Costa , the new visa program included a memorandum of understanding between Startup Portugal -- the national strategy for entrepreneurship in Portugal -- and Invest India . The memorandum has three objectives : To provide a favorable business environment and the orientation needed for startups and business in India and Portugal . This means , essentially , welcoming would be founders with welcome arms and ensuring there is a slice of the economy for them to move in on . The second objective is to coordinate efforts between the two governments , investors , incubators , consultants , universities and research / development institutions to strengthen the start - ups sector in both countries ( however , it should be pretty clear to everyone that Portugal has more to gain from this agreement ) . The third objective will be to assist startups throughout their life cycle in aspects such as financing , market expansion , business structuring advice and technology marketing . All in all , a pretty sweet deal . There is growing pride in the Portuguese startup scene which , while not misplaced , is maybe getting ahead of itself slightly . Claims that Lisbon is as competitive as London or San Francisco are not totally on the money , yet , with VC investment still pretty small . However , this is certainly not to say that the situation will not change over the coming months , or years , that could see Portugal increasing its own fortunes .   