Companies depend on product managers to have a clear understanding of the company vision in order to move the product forward . Recently we asked talked with Mike Lewis , business travel product manager at Airbnb , at Galvanize to discuss all things product management and what they need to be thinking about to help the company succeed . Mike talked about understanding the difference between the mission versus the vision of the company . " Vision is where you want to be , mission is where you are now . And without a clear vision , it 's difficult to understand where you want to be , " Mike said . Mike said that product managers need to have knowledge in five primary areas : understanding of the market , company strategy , needs of the company , competitor 's strategy and industry trends . After working to establish a clear vision for the company we asked Mike what the product manager 's actual role is in helping to help the company move towards success . Mike offered seven suggestions for product managers : Plan / prioritize the company roadmap monthly , quarterly , and yearly based on the size of your company and needs Access what 's not happening and clearly articulate what is not going on the product roadmap in the future . Allow enough time for product to ship by giving double estimates ( doubling the amount of time needed for a product release ) making sure to leave some time for that one little thing that might have been missed Develop and build out project requirements and project management . Determine what you would like to achieve by the end of the week , month , quarter , and year Release and promote by preparing pre - messaging for customers , scheduling and managing release times with internal teams and sales so everyone is on the same page Hire a data scientist to measure results , a / b test , and measure adoption . If you 're failing to meet metrics , it 's due to , use case , the implementation is wrong ( tends to be this ) , the demand from the customer was n't what they envisioned or your success metric was miscalculated . Take the time to course correct , otherwise , all is for naught . Listen to customers and collect feedback . This is critical to your success as customers are the lifeblood of your company . Mike referred to a product manager at a startup as a one man band . Typically their background falls into business , design , or tech , and intersects in the middle of these categories . Product managers tend to be strong in one area and weak in another . Read more about hiring talent at Tech . Co . This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .