Co - founders pose with a sign for UpNext , the startup they sold to Amazon , on their last day at the e - commerce giant . They went on to found Viro Media . ( From left : Raj Advani , Danny Moon , Robin Har , and Vik Advani . Viro Media Photo )   Danny Moon believes we 're on the cusp of a virtual reality revolution that 's held back by a lack of content . Getting more VR experiences on the market was the impetus for the Viro Media , a startup he co - founded with longtime partners Raj and Vik Advani and Robin Har in 2015 . Their goal is " democratizing VR development , " Moon said . Viro just closed a $ 2.5 million funding round to bring on more developers and accelerate that vision . The cash will go toward building out Viro 's framework , which enables developers to create virtual reality apps and experiences using programming tools they already know . " Our stack is our own 3D render engine combined with React Native so it 's a familiar open - source framework from Facebook that lots of web and mobile developers are familiar with , " Moon said . " Now they can leverage their skills to start building for VR . " The round was led by Lowercase Capital , SoftBank NYC , and Eniac Ventures with participation from Presence Capital , Box Group , Betaworks , Rugged Ventures . Prior to Viro , the company 's four co - founders launched and built UpNext , a 3D mapping startup that sold to Amazon in 2012 . The team stayed on at Amazon for a few years , helping to incorporate the technology into Kindle tablets and the now - defunct Fire Phone . " We have always been very interested in 3D visualization technologies and when we saw VR , we immediately knew this is where we wanted to go , " Moon said . " We started building apps on some of the game engines and while we believe they 're great tools , they did n't service the need we were looking for . We wanted to build more content - focused , dynamic and interactive applications . So rather than build the app we decided to build the framework . " Viro 's seven - person team is headquartered at the WeWork Westlake co - working space in Seattle . Watch Viro Media 's launch video below .         