Starting today the Mobile Bank N26 offers N26 Business , a dedicated account for freelancers and self - employed . Customers can now use one account to navigate both their business and private finances . It comes with all the known N26 features and a Business Mastercard . N26 Business is available in all markets for natural persons who are self - employed . This is the first step into the business segment and will be followed by an account for legal entities . New customers can sign up paperless for the product within 8 minutes , just choosing N26 Business in the process . N26 Business comes with real - time push notifications for all transactions on the account and MoneyBeam - the instant money transfer . All account and card functions can be monitored and controlled from the N26 mobile app , including blocking or unblocking a card , ordering a new card or changing a PIN . Automatic categorisations of purchases into categories give a clear overview where the money is going . Especially useful for freelancers is the tags feature , which allows you to tag transactions associated with one project with as many hashtags as you want to and pull overviews for just that project . This also immensely simplifies splitting the business from the personal purchases for tax reporting . The account also comes with a Mastercard Business that will give a cashback on all transactions of 0,1% . Valentin Stalf , the founder and CEO of N26 stated : " With N26 Business we help freelancers and self - employed to fully focus on their business , while saving costs for a traditional business account , which may add up to a few hundred Euros per year . More business specific features will follow later this year . " N26 aims to digitize every dimension of traditional retail banks , but in addition to developing many product features directly in - house , N26 also selectively partners with other FinTechs and innovative financial services providers . N26 gives its customers one - click access to the best financial products by leveraging innovation from around the world . N26 was founded in early 2013 by Valentin Stalf and Maximilian Tayenthal . Today , the Berlin - based startup counts more than 300.000 clients in 17 countries : Austria , Belgium , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Netherlands , Portugal , Slovakia , Slovenia , and Spain and currently employs 200 people . Since January 2015 , N26 has been available for Android , iOS , and desktop . N26 has raised more than $ 55 million from investors including Li Ka - Shing 's Horizons Ventures , Battery Ventures and Valar Ventures , in addition to members of the Zalando management board , Earlybird Venture Capital and Redalpine Ventures . N26 is Europe 's first Mobile Bank with a full European banking license and is setting new standards in banking .