Coastline helps restaurants place orders directly from fishermen . ( Coastline Image )   You 'd be hard - pressed to find a marketplace more analog than fishermen selling seafood straight from the dock at the crack of dawn . Coastline Market sees that as a big opportunity . The Vancouver , B.C. startup has developed a digital marketplace that connects restaurants and retailers with local fishing operations . The platform allows customers to place and track orders , pay online , and find out where and how their seafood was harvested . Coastline CEO Robert Kirstiuk got the idea after watching dock workers sell the day 's catch . He started asking more questions about the industry and quickly realized he could make the process more efficient using technology . Twenty - five restaurants and six fishing boats in Vancouver already use Coastline 's platform . The startup is currently working through the Techstars Seattle 2017 class . We caught up with Kirstiuk for this Startup Spotlight , a regular GeekWire feature . Continue reading for his answers to our questionnaire . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " We connect restaurants and retailers to local commercial fishermen . We help eliminate middlemen with our online platform . " Inspiration hit us when : " I was visiting family in New Brunswick , Canada when I wondered why some fishermen preferred to sell direct off the dock instead of selling directly in the city . This opened up a whole new set of questions and thinking about the fishing industry for us . VC , Angel or Bootstrap : " VC and Angel . With the advent of accessible technology in the fishing industry , we have a unique opportunity to move quickly and build a defensible model through network effects . Growth funding from VCs and Angels provides us with the best opportunity to grow to critical mass and establish a global presence in the shortest timeframe possible . " Our ' secret sauce ' is : " Unlike traditional wholesalers , we utilize a just - in - time system to eliminate the need for cold storage or warehousing . This radically reduces the environmental and capital cost of preserving seafood , while providing clarity and transparency throughout the supply chain . " The smartest move we 've made so far : " Moving to Seattle to accelerate our company through Techstars . " The biggest mistake we 've made so far : " We hastily built our initial prototype without customer feedback , and ended up delivering a narrow - sighted solution with poor product - market fit . In the end , we had to discard the old codebase and start from scratch . " Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : " Gates . His unique mix of intelligence , philanthropy , and results - driven attitude really resonates with our core values as a company . " Our favorite team - building activity is : " Eating ! Everyone on our team is a self - proclaimed Foodie . " The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : " Cultural alignment . As a company , we 're focused on hiring people that live and breathe our anchor values . We care about getting the right people on our boat ; not putting them in the perfect seat . Technical aptitude and expertise is something that can be learned over time - alignment is not . " What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : " Never underestimate the inertia of large corporations . The biggest reason why ideas never become reality is because of the prevailing notion that someone out there with more resources , information or expertise must have thought about / executed on the opportunity . " Editor 's note : GeekWire is featuring each of the companies in the Techstars Seattle 2017 accelerator as they prepare for their Demo Day April 19 .