Japanese telecom giant and startup investor , Softbank , wants India 's top two online retailers to join forces to fight Amazon in the country . Softbank is reportedly " orchestrating " a merger between Flipkart , India 's biggest online retailer , and rival Snapdeal , and could possibly have a deal by the end of next   month .   SEE ALSO : India 's biggest online retailer is acquiring eBay 's India business , report says Interestingly , Softbank is the largest investor in Snapdeal with a 30 percent share .   Snapdeal though is struggling to survive in the face of stiff domestic competition , especially after the aggressive expansion of Amazon which is now the second - biggest online retailer in the country .   It has been in talks with various domestic rivals for a possible merger . Snapdeal even considered merging with Alibaba - backed Paytm , according to reports . The Chinese internet giant is an existing investor in Snapdeal too .   Not only Snapdeal , but even Flipkart is feeling the Amazon heat .   Most recently , it was reportedly in talks to acquire eBay 's India business as part of a $ 2 billion fund raising that saw investments from Tencent and Microsoft . The online retailer has been devalued by Morgan Stanley twice in quick succession and is now valued at a mere $ 5.37 billion from $ 15.2 billion in 2015 .   Softbank , meanwhile , is looking to invest about $ 1.5 billion for a 15 percent share in the Flipkart - Snapdeal combine , the Times of India report added . If and when the new entity comes about , it would be Amazon 's primary competitor in India .   Last year , Amazon 's gains had come at the expense of Flipkart and Snapdeal 's market share in the $ 15 billion online retail industry . Currently , the Jeff Bezos - owned internet giant is doing a business of about $ 4 billion and is the No . 2 in India after Flipkart . India is a particularly important market for Amazon , especially after its failure in China . " Success in India means that Amazon 's retail model can work outside of ' traditional ' markets in North America and Europe , and helps provide better visibility in how Amazon can continue to grow for many years in the future , " a San Francisco - based analyst was quoted as saying .   Mashable has reached out to Flipkart and Snapdeal for comment .  