South Africa has been in hot water politically and economically after the country 's credit rating was downgraded to " junk status " earlier this month . Despite this the local currency has shown resilience and economists believe that policy changes should steer the country towards a recovery . According to its central bank governor , the country is still attracting capital flows which should be good news for South Africa 's tech scene . Africa , as a continent , has a growing tech scene with 314 active tech hubs . South Africa leads the continent with 54 , according to a recent graphic by GSMA Ecosystem Accelerator . But if there 's a tech scene South Africa can learn from , it 's Poland 's . Poland has positioned itself as the major tech hub of central and eastern Europe ( CEE ) . Its roster of companies with multi - million dollar valuations is growing . Here are six lessons South Africa can learn from Poland 's tech scene : Poland produces top tech talent . Computing is part of the curricula at all levels . Programming website HackerRank puts Poland at third globally as the country with the best developers . This hasn't been gone unnoticed by other major startups . Lower labour costs and an English - speaking population has enabled Poland to become a major outsourcing destination for software development work for companies in the US and UK . Polish software companies have made software - as- a - service ( SaaS ) their niche . SaaS allows these tech companies to have worldwide presence without having to worry about cross - border distribution or putting physical presence abroad . There is a wide array of services catering to both B2B and B2C markets . Among some notable SaaS brands include social media monitoring service Brand24 , social   listening tool SentiOne and development platform SaaS Manager . Polish entrepreneurs also insist on building sustainable businesses . While there are active venture capital funds and angel investors active in Poland 's tech hubs , most entrepreneurs insist on funding themselves . This allows their businesses to be profitable from the start rather than worry about making an exit to make money . South Africa has yet to produce its own unicorn . Perhaps Poland 's best known billion - dollar companies are game developer CD Projekt and ecommerce auction site Allegro . Nurturing a homegrown unicorn can open up more opportunities . It communicates that the country continues to be a viable place for business and it also create prospects for spin - offs . Email marketing platform GetResponse , which now has more than 250 000 active users including enterprises such as Avon , Hilton , and Citroen , has enjoyed positive business and eventually spun off new services such as ClickMeeting . Part of cultivating the scene is presenting it as a regional hub . This includes hosting global events that gathers industry and thought leaders in the region . Poland is host to two of the biggest tech events - Pipeline Summit and InfoShare . These events draw developers , entrepreneurs and investors together and playing host to such events position the country as the epicenter of tech activities . It is also important to be the gateway for a bigger market . Poland has been that for the CEE . There 's a reason why Google elected to put up a campus in Warsaw - it 's the search giant 's foothold for the rest of CEE . Since the move , Google has unveiled programs to fuel tech development in Poland , Hungary and the Czech Republic through is Warsaw campus . South Africa already enjoys being the gateway for business in the region in general . Nairobi and Kenya are also making strides in their tech scenes so there are contenders to South Africa 's position . It 's time for South Africa to refocus that image for tech . Ultimately , the challenge lies in the tech startups themselves . With such a troubled economy , it is critical to consider sustainable growth rather than rely on venture capital and exits . By bootstrapping and focusing on innovation , there 's always the chance for a big break for any of SA 's startups . Itai Elizur is COO at Inbound Junction , a content marketing agency specialising in helping startups and business increase their online visibility . Find him on https://twitter.com/ItaiElizur Featured image : Juan Antonio F. Segal via Flickr ( CC 2.0 , resize ) Great article ! Thank you for mentioning SentiOne !   <3 from SentiOne ! Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Startups