Fresh from its debut on the ASX last month , logistics software company GetSwift has announced the appointment of Jamila Gordon , a non - executive director , to the role of Global Chief Information Officer . Gordon has been tasked with leading the company 's digital vision , overseeing all client integration and ensuring the stability and security of the GetSwift platform . Bane Hunter , executive chairman of GetSwift , welcomed Gordon 's appointment , saying , " Jamila 's extensive capabilities in digital and IT transformation , plus her background working at blue - chip multinational institutions , leaves her incredibly well equipped to manage our growing IT needs and provide innovative , efficient solutions for our platform and IT environment . " The role with GetSwift is Gordon 's first with a startup ; Gordon has worked with the likes of IBM and Deloitte across Europe , returning to Australia in 2007 to join Qantas as its Group CIO , working to transform the company 's IT . She most recently worked with CIMIC Limited . The road to working in tech was a long one for Gordon . She started an accounting degree at LaTrobe University , then picked up a software programming elective and fell in love . " I was really good with numbers and I thought I 'd enjoy it ... but I was spending more time on the one elective compared to all my other subjects , and I had this amazing lecturer who said , ' just follow your passion , ' and I thought , what do I have to lose ? " Gordon said . " I 've always been a risk taker so I thought to myself , I 'm just going to give it a go because I love it ; if I do n't get a job out of it I can always go back to university . " Gordon 's appetite for risk taking came through her upbringing in Somalia . Civil unrest began to rise when she was a teenager , leading her father to try to get her brothers and sisters out of the country ; Gordon was sent to Kenya to live with relatives she had never met . " I was basically a refugee in Kenya at 18 ... I realised then , I needed to get somewhere because I had no home to go back to . I then met an Australian backpacker who sponsored me to come to Australia and that 's what drove me to go to university ; I wanted to be able to look after yourself , " she said . With that experience in mind , taking a chance on a new degree was a breeze . Gordon said , " It would never be as bad as being homeless in Kenya , so I was able to put it into perspective . " In joining GetSwift , the smallest company she has worked for , Gordon has put its size into perspective by looking at its potential . " Startups are where the excitement is , where the high - impact global businesses of the future are born . GetSwift is a huge disruptor in the last - mile delivery space ; my prediction is that they 'll be the Facebook of that space , " she said . " Looking at their track record , they 've been around just 20 months , and in that time they 've become a global organisation , working in over 50 counties around the world , and their solution solves a genuine business problem . " The business is working with businesses in over 300 cities around the world , among them grocery delivery startup Instacart in the US , and Australian fast food company QSRH , which owns chains including Red Rooster and Oporto .