Creating a startup is one of the hardest things that anyone can undertake and finding support used to be a daunting task . However , that has changed over the past few years with more and more resources cropping up for entrepreneurs . During the recent Techstars-4-A - Day event , which was held at the Rise hub in Cape Town , four panellists spoke about the local ecosystem and how entrepreneurs can leverage information from it . The ecosystem manager for Barclays Rise in Africa , Camilla Swart , opened with a few words about the organisation as well as what it looks to achieve . " Part of my role here is to get more people involved in fintech . " This role consists of getting entrepreneurs to meet investors , and more . The organisation wants to put a spotlight on Blockchain , AI and Big Data , while Swart mentioned that " financial inclusion is an important thing to focus on " . Michelle Matthews , head of innovation and enterprise development at CiTi , said that while Telkom 's head office is based in Pretoria , its data unit is based in Woodstock , Cape Town . This has allowed for a number for working spaces to pop up with increased bandwidth for entrepreneurs . The panel was quite vocal about local startup events and how they benefit those who attend them . " Events are an important part of an ecosystem because that 's where you do most of your networking , " said Swart . " In these networking opportunities , what you give is what you get . " The co - founder of Brightcap , Jacomien Van der Merwe , also mentioned how startup events have helped her in the past , such as the Financial Hackathon held at Rise , Women in Business , which took place at the Bandwidth Barn , as well as the SAP pitching competition . " Every single one of the events I 've attended has led me down a journey , " said the founder of Fomo Travel , Andrew Katzwinkel . An example of this was a ' speed dating ' session he attended for entrepreneurs and investors ; it helped him launch Fomo . The panelists went on to talk about other ways of finding useful information for entrepreneurs , one of which was books . Katzwinkel mentioned that fan favourite The Lean Startup was incredibly helpful in the early stages of founding Fomo Travel . Van der Merwe added that reading books by Elon Musk has been a help and said that : " If you 're fund raising , read a good book , and get knowledge about fund raising . " Another example was the use of social media . Swart said that Twitter helped her learn about fintech when she first started her job at Rise . Matthews added that you should only look at people on Twitter who apply to you . Feature image : David Stanley via Flickr .