While tech hubs like San Francisco and New York boast some of the most innovative minds in the world , counting out other tech ecosystems is doing a disservice to yourself and the entrepreneurial community . Cities and countries around the world are innovating everything from fintech to artificial intelligence in pursuit of a more technologically inclined world . And on Cinco de Mayo , the Mexican startup ecosystem is turning more than a few heads . With a number of factors working in your favor , including demographics , market potential , strong , mission - driven entrepreneurs , regulatory support , and its proximity to the United States , the southern third of North America is making its case in more ways than one . " The Mexico entrepreneurial and venture ecosystem is rapidly on the rise and more sophisticated than the country 's ' emerging market ' status suggests , " said Anna Diaz , product and community manager at Draper Venture Network in a Medium post . A startup ecosystem needs support from big players and influential investors in order to succeed . And if you 're wondering who is behind Mexico 's rise , take a look at some of the influencers fueling the Mexican startup ecosystem below : As a mentor at Techstars , Lucia has made the Mexican startup ecosystem better through meaningful communication with potential entrepreneurs and startup founders . As the International Marketing Manager at Techstars , she has worked hard to identify opportunities that may lead to the development of new products and resources in the region . Fernando believes that Mexico is currently ripe for an entrepreneurial boom , with a large youth population and an increasingly education - focused government , this huge domestic market of 115 million inhabitants could really explode . And with his expertise in innovative business practices , his venture firm could make all the difference in the world . Ariel is an entrepreneur , mentor , and angel investor in everything from web analytics to human augmentation . He believes that the new digitally active population is going to be the biggest drive force in Mexico , and he aims to address their needs with a more online methodology . This small business owner is using his company to support other startups , by providing software that can ensure that their users stay engaged without an internet connection . His belief in the resourcefulness of his fellow countrymen is what fueled his company to make payments , messaging , location - sharing , and ride - hailing apps useful even when people do n't have access to data . Being the CEO of an angel investor network gives you a lot of power in a startup ecosystem . This seed stage investment fund is focused on information technology , mobile , healthcare , green tech and social impact startups . He recognizes that investing in startups has become the new hot trend and hopes that Mexico will see an explosion of venture capital , as well as innovation , in the coming years . Read more about the Mexican startup ecosystem here on Tech . Co H / T GeekTime