Do n't tell your favorite grade school teacher , but bots are infinitely more patient instructors that are willing to offer assistance and information for as long and as often as they 're needed . That 's one reason big - time education advocates such as Bill Gates are so excited by the possibilities of AI , but it has major implications in the workplace , too . Talla , a Boston - area startup , has created a bot that can do many of the routine tasks normally performed by an HR department , such as distributing surveys , gathering data , and even training employees . Sound far - fetched ? Such bots are actually more common than many people might realize : 80 percent of companies currently rely on bot - enabled communication tools like Slack and HipChat . Sure , bots can assume busywork and enable better interoffice communication , but a bot 's true power lies in its educational capabilities . For many , this vision of the future might seem like a nightmare in which reliable humans are replaced by annoying chatbots that cause more problems than they solve . However , this pessimism is caught up in antiquated notions of what a bot can be , which are not helped by the chatbots encountered in apps such as Facebook Messenger . In reality , a well - designed , well - implemented bot wo n't replace employees , but it can empower them . Last spring , Georgia Tech hired a teaching assistant named Jill Watson . Jill helped the professor by answering any questions students had outside of class , and the students loved her , even if she was only available online . There was a reason for that : Jill was actually an advanced chatbot . When students found out at the end of the semester , they were blown away . While an ordinary chatbot wo n't necessarily pass the Turing test , this example shows just how far chatbots have come and how useful they can be as teachers . Here are three ways messaging bots can improve employee training and development . Good teachers do more than answer questions . They also know how to ask students the right questions , framing those questions in ways designed to pique curiosity about a subject and rewarding students when they excel . A good bot can do the same . When employees enter online training sessions , use bots to pose intriguing questions and place conversations in a context that provokes real enthusiasm . At my company , for example , we use bots to tell riddles to our developers to present a stimulating challenge . After lessons are completed , use bots to reward trainees with fun digital images that serve as virtual badges and hearty congratulations , much like the gold star stickers teachers place on students ' tests . To motivate employees to keep learning , use a bot to create a leaderboard , keep a personal tally for each student , and chart everyone 's progress . Although the gamification of training might sound silly , it gives employees tangible reinforcement : acknowledgement of a job well done . Recognition has been shown to be an excellent way to drive individual performance , which is why so many personal endeavors -- from physical fitness to email management -- have already been gamified . Continued education is vital for any skilled position , and bots are well - equipped to help employees stay up - to - date on the latest technologies and methodologies in their fields . Design your bots to help employees assess their own weak spots . Approach this from a no - pressure standpoint . It should n't be about employees getting certain scores . Instead , design your bots so that when employees are asked a question , they can tell you whether they understand the concept . This way , they 're aware of what they need to work on and you know what concepts you need to reinforce as a company . If employees do n't know where to start when prompted with a question , program the bot to immediately respond with additional resources . A digital network called OUR Walmart , which is composed of more than 100,000 employees , uses IBM 's Watson AI abilities to match employees ' questions with existing training materials . Then , have your bot ask the same question a week later to track progress . Employees wo n't realistically remember every single thing they learned during their initial training ; it 's how we work as humans . We learn something the first time ; then , without repetition , we slowly begin to lose that knowledge . However , if we 're reminded within a particular cycle -- and then reminded again within a longer cycle -- we 're much more likely to retain it in the long term . Why not use a bot to manage and automate this process ? Design your bots to deploy refresher courses periodically during the initial training period and beyond . Computer learning can be up to 50 percent more effective than in - person training because bots allow employees to revisit lessons as many times as they need to -- at their convenience and on their own terms . For example , let 's say you want to focus on functional programming practices and JavaScript for 12 weeks . Program your bot to engage those teammates over that time period , working around their schedules and allowing them to repeat tutorials as needed . Properly designed and implemented chatbots can empower employees to become more self - sufficient and skilled at what they do . It 's a win - win scenario for employees and management . Chatbots are n't here to frustrate and annoy ; they 're here to help -- you just have to be willing to let them . Kuty Shalev is the founder of Clevertech , a New York City - based firm that designs , develops , and deploys strategic software for businesses .