For a developer , nothing saps away more time or patience than quality assurance ( QA ) testing . For the unacquainted , imagine if you could n't send an email without ensuring you had used the perfect spelling , line spacing , font size , grammar , and sentence structure . Emails would bounce if they were deemed ' incorrect ' , meaning you 'd have to backtrack and send test emails after each sentence to narrow down the issue . Bugdojo is a startup looking to ease the pain of QA testing for developers , through an online platform that connects the coding work of small to medium teams to QA professionals for quick , high - quality testing . Focusing on ' interface - based ' testing for web platforms and applications , Bugdojo allows developers to integrate their online control repositories such as Github and Bitbucket to the platform , before submitting their code for testing using ' bot commands ' . These online repositories act as a sort of Google Drive and project management tool for code , allowing code of any language to be ' hosted ' online for collaboration or backup . Once connected to their Bugdojo account , developers are able to write up a ' ticket ' containing details about what needs to be tested , before issuing a short ' bot ' or coding command that sends the ticket over to a Bugdojo QA tester . The idea , according to the startup 's founder Ash Conway , is to allow developers a simplistic and quick way to submit their work for QA testing without sacrificing time or resources . After all , these developers are already using repositories , meaning submitting a ticket for a QA test takes nothing short of a line of code . Following the establishment of another startup called Bugwolf , which focused on user acceptance testing , the final audience - based testing stage for software before release , Conway saw that there was another noticeable gap in the testing market . " Over time I had the chance to think about other problems and issues in the space . Quite a lot of the time I 'd have smaller software engineering teams talk about the issues they ere having in QA and how existing solutions did n't really fit in with their workflow , " said Conway . Existing solutions , Conway explained , come in the form of medium - large scale QA firms or an in - house QA engineer . However , for a smaller scale development team , such as those working within startups , hiring a dedicated QA person typically is n't worth the cost , while using a larger firm comes with hefty overhead costs . " You do n't always need QA developers full - time when you 're a dev team of a smaller scale . They also can be hard to find , and outsourcing is expensive if you use traditional methods of submitting content to a larger QA agency , " said Conway . Bugdojo , Conway added , cuts out the " middleman " in these processes and thus saves smaller development teams cash . To help support these tinier budgets , the startup has adopted a no contract , pay - as - you - go model . Submitting work for QA testing currently costs a flat rate of $ 10 , with the first five tests free . Bugdojo also sports a " 100% quality guarantee " , meaning if a developer is n't happy with the result , the business will waive the fee . As to why a developer would use the platform over testing code themselves , Conway discussed the pros and cons of the process , and where Bugdojo fits in . " There are a bunch of other things that an engineer will do around QA from an automated perspective . We 're not here to replace that , but there are tasks that require a fresh set of eyes and require a real person to test them in a real environment , on another device on a browser , " he said . " Because we integrate into the workflow of a small - medium dev team , they do n't need to jump out of what they 're doing . They can actually do it while they code . I [ also ] think developers are n't the best people to test their own work . They 're also the type who generally find it a pain , so we want to take the annoyance out of that . " Staying true to the platform 's focus on allowing developers to " content switch " or submit tests while they code , each completed QA report is returned to the exact ticket the developer issued the test from . Responses are issued with a small description , a ' pass ' or ' fail ' , mark and a video report so a developer can see where any issues occurred , visualised through a screen - capture of the QA tester navigating the material . The testers themselves are industry professionals sourced through Bugdojo , who are vetted through a testing process which pits applicants against a QA testing scenario . To help keep the test fresh , Conway said there 's also a machine learning element to the testing process . Once onboard , QA testers are obliged to sign a non - disclosure agreement to protect clients . They 'll then be allocated jobs as they come in , and are tasked with completing them and returning a report within an hour . Most testers currently work as freelancers , many full or part time developers looking to earn cash on the side , with Conway saying there will be opportunities for bigger income earnings as the marketplace grows . " If they fall below a certain level of quality , they 'll be sent back to taking the vetting step again , " he added . Having bootstrapped both Bugdojo and Bugwolf himself , Conway said he 's keeping an open mind to funding opportunities in the future ; bootstrapping helps him push himself to get customers on board . " There 's a lot of good stuff that comes out of bootstrapping , since you put pressure on yourself to get customers and start making money . It definitely makes things more interesting sometimes , " he said . Getting customers on board will be exactly what Budojo will look to do next , as the startup works on its marketing plan and target research .