Dyzio * a technology platform that promises to streamline influencer marketing on a global scale , has launched in beta with the backing of UK digital entrepreneurs . Dyzio is the first of its kind in the marketing tech arena and a solution to the complex world of influencer marketing campaign management . It will enable collaboration between brands , agencies and influencers , allowing them to create , distribute and amplify campaigns for any channel in one simple , secure platform . Dyzio was co - founded by advertising executive Matt Hebden and platform architect Laurie Bantin in 2016 , after identifying a need to streamline and centralise the influencer marketing process . Its advisory team consists of dyzio investors Ashley MacKenzie , founder and CEO of Base79 , and CEO of Brave Bison Group Plc ; Richard Mansell , founder and COO of Base79 ; and former co - CEO of Perform Group , Oliver Slipper . The beta roll - out follows the closure of an angel funding round last September . Matt Hebden , co - founder and CEO , dyzio said : " Influencer marketing is exciting , but can be chaotic . Agencies and brands have their work cut out , having to forge relationships with a global community of influencers in a world that demands ever more content , faster . It can be a very complex process . The entrepreneurs ' combined expertise means dyzio will provide customers with the tools and know - how to navigate a new branded content landscape . Dyzio will help its customers to create content quickly and at scale ; understand and master an ever - increasing array of channels and regulation ; and achieve a hassle - free branded content workflow . Ion backing dyzio , Slipper explained , " It 's exciting to see dyzio come to life . Every day , I 'm working closely with companies looking to promote their new digital products with influencers . There is a pressing need for a centralised platform to optimise -- and future - proof -- this market , which dyzio is set to achieve . " In addition , the platform will simplify the management of campaign minutiae such as sharing , reviewing and approving creative briefs , proposals , budgets , contracts and creative deliverables ( like videos and images ) . It will also provide live analytics , reporting and payment solutions as the platform evolves . Hebden continued , " We saw an opportunity to streamline and facilitate influencer marketing . dyzio 's intelligent workflow guides our customers through the process , while providing the tech support and insight to achieve innovative content and campaigns . " MacKenzie said : " As influencer marketing scales and becomes more fragmented , dyzio will be the necessary connective tissue . Agencies , brands , influencers , multi - channel networks and production companies all stand to benefit from this new platform , which will enable them to collaborate to deliver valuable and meaningful campaigns . " Dyzio actually spells its name with a lower case ' D ' . This is the most annoying branding trend to happen , ever . We have -- grudgingly -- honored it where the name does not come at the start of a sentence .   The next startup with a cool announcement but grammatically banal name branding will have its founders ' names published in WingDings . You 've been warned . Again .   