Networking is an essential aspect of growing a startup . For startups that barely have any online presence , the key to getting an audience 's attention is to leverage the reach of influencers . These are bloggers , social media celebrities , actors , or anyone else who can sway the purchase decisions of potential customers . There are many creative ways to reach out to online influencers - from granting them early access to your product or tagging them frequently in your social media updates . To help you succeed , here are seven influencer marketing tools you can use : Traackr is a comprehensive platform that can help identify as well as engage potential influencers . With this platform , you can also manage your relationships with influencers so you can scale and grow your brand with them . You 'll also receive training , support , and assistance when setting up your influencer marketing campaign . The service guarantees results , but it 's not exactly the cheapest . BuzzStream is another full - service platform similar to Traackr - only cheaper . It 's better - suited for smaller businesses on a tighter budget and want to be more involved with the relationship - building process . It allows you to segment your list , create outreach emails with templates , and manage your relationships . If you prefer to run an influencer marketing campaign on your own , the next thing you need is a tool that scans the web for prospective influencers . You can start big with a bio search tool like Followerwonk . Just type in a key word or phrase that describes your niche to look for popular accounts on Twitter . It is hosted freely by Moz , but it also has a paid version where you can receive in - depth analytics , actionable data visualizations , and so on . An alternative way to look for influencers is to use BuzzSumo to look for popular content and look at the author 's name . If it 's a blog , click on the link and see if their name appears on the post itself . Although tools like BuzzSumo and Followerwonk can help you find potential influencers , take note that you still need a platform that will help you engage and work with them . Some influencers can tell if an outreach email uses a template or not . Although templates are still important if you 're going to blast hundreds of outreach emails , you can maximize your success by sending unique and personalized messages to high - profile influencers . You can lessen the load by utilizing writing service like King Essays - whether you need studies to impress serious influencers or straightforward marketing proposals . The subject line alone can make the difference between a successful influencer relationship and just another email in the spam folder . As a rule of thumb , you should avoid generic subject lines and go for something captivating , unique , and on - point . Just make sure to run your subject line ideas on CoSchedule 's Headline Analyzer to check your headline 's score . The tool will also provide you with recommendations on how you can improve your subject lines and generate more clicks . Do n't get discouraged easily if no one replies to your initial wave of outreach emails . Sometimes , they just need a simple reminder to make sure they haven't forgotten about your proposition or overlooked your email by accident . For this , you can use the unique utility tool known as FollowUpThen , which works by letting you create automated follow - ups to yourself , the influencer , or you both . Read more about influencer marketing here on Tech . Co