You learn a lot of lessons in the entrepreneurial trenches . Whether it 's a stunning success or a miserable failure , these lessons can help you grow your company -- and grow as an individual . Anyone who has ever started a company understands the extreme ups and downs , the trials and tribulations , and the intense pride you feel from your team 's achievements . You also learn many lessons along the way . These lessons learned will help you find something to help you with your own entrepreneurial journey : Without customers , you do n't have a business . If you 're not cultivating customer love , you 're more susceptible to losing to your competition . The benefits of earning your customers ' love extends beyond loyalty . If they love you , they 'll invest time in providing real feedback that will help you create and prioritize your product road map . Strong customer relationships are invaluable to startups that are always trying to make their product better . Do n't forget to show your customers that you love them , too . Acts of love do n't have to be elaborate or expensive -- anything that puts a smile on your customer 's face counts . Building a startup is hard , and there will be difficult days that test both you and your team . The stronger your culture is , the more resilient you will be to these challenges . One of the single most important things for any startup is to be purposeful in building culture . Ultimately , there are numerous factors that will determine a company 's success , but of those that you as a founder control , establishing and maintaining the right culture may very well be the most important . At some level , the need for individualism is inherent for startups . If what you 're trying to build was obvious , someone would have done it already , which is why founders face headwinds early on . Regardless of what anyone else thinks , you have to know you 're building something that will help companies . Do n't pay attention to the naysayers . In other words , stay focused on what makes your company unique while balancing pragmatism with bullheadedness . It 's important to remain conscious of the fact that little daily improvements can account for quite a difference in the long run . The ability to learn from your mistakes is necessary for life , but is do - or - die for startups . Use what you learn to figure out how you can take small steps toward improvement each day . Everything you 're doing is setting a precedent for the future . Identify what 's most important , and take the time to get it right when you 're a small , more agile company so that it does n't come back to haunt you when you 've grown . Try to anticipate how something will affect your team in the future to determine if it 's the right thing to " sweat " over . No matter which industry your company is in , applying the lessons above can have a positive impact on you and your organization . Read more about entrepreneurial lessons here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .