Waitrose and the John Lewis Partnership are looking for retail technology start - ups to join the 2017 intake of their JLABS accelerator programme . Run in association with innovation specialist L Marks , this is the fourth year for the programme , which gives emerging start - ups access to resources , support and equity funding . Five to 10 successful applicants will take part in a 12-week programme , receiving mentorship and free workspace at the John Lewis head office in Victoria and the Waitrose head office in Bracknell . Participants will be able to apply for funding of up to PS100,000 from a dedicated PS200,000 microfund in exchange for a share in their company . This year JLABS is looking for retail tech start - ups focused on the following areas : * Amazing Food Experiences - systems to make food service to customers more convenient , exciting and innovative * Amazing Store Experiences - partnerships with start - ups that will make in - store experiences " more inspiring and individual " * Effortless Shopping - solutions to improve online and offline shopping experiences for customers * Help Me Live a Healthier Life - health and wellbeing solutions that can be used both online and in store to help customers improve their lifestyles * Smarter Supply Chain - ideas that disrupt and improve traditional supply chain practices * Surprise us - innovative ideas that do n't fit into a classification Paul Coby , chief information officer of John Lewis Partnership , commented : " Waitrose involvement in JLAB means we can now provide start - ups with unprecedented access to two of the UK 's leading retailers and ensure we add value to these fledgling companies , in the same spirit of cooperation the John Lewis Partnership was founded on . " Stuart Marks , chairman of L Marks , said : " At a time when most large companies are seeing disruption all around them , the John Lewis Partnership has willingly opened up its entire business up to assist and develop start - ups . " We are excited to have Waitrose join the programme and bringing with it their unique grocery related categories . We expect this to be our best JLAB yet . " Applications for JLAB close at midnight on 30 April 2017 . Find out more and enter here .