Net neutrality has been a hotly debated topic in the tech sector for a few years . While former president Obama did a great job of putting laws in place to protect it , innovators around the world are now worried about the future of net neutrality . Fortunately , startups and entrepreneurs are being proactive about ensuring that small companies can compete on a level playing field without the threat that their services will be discriminated against by big cable and wireless companies . Engine , Y Combinator , and Techstars have organized a collection of 800 startups , innovators , investors , and entrepreneurial support organizations from all 50 states to take a stand against those thinking about dismantling net neutrality and the laws that protect it . The letter , which includes the names of the 800 organizations involved , is addressed to the FCC . " The success of America 's startup ecosystem depends on more than improved broadband speeds . We also depend on an open Internet -- including enforceable net neutrality rules that ensure big cable companies ca n't discriminate against people like us , " wrote the authors of the letter . " We 're deeply concerned with your intention to undo the existing legal framework . " The letter goes on to detail the importance of net neutrality to the entrepreneurial process , particularly the fact that an open internet would open the doors to a wide range of problematic business behaviors . It adamantly advocates for net neutrality , saying that businesses should n't be forced to pay tolls in order to compete , particularly in a capitalist society like this one . " Without net neutrality , the incumbents who provide access to the Internet would be able to pick winners or losers in the market . They could impede traffic from our services in order to favor their own services or established competitors . Or they could impose new tolls on us , inhibiting consumer choice . Those actions directly impede an entrepreneur 's ability to start a business , immediately reach a worldwide customer base , and disrupt an entire industry . " If you 're interested in showing your support for this movement , you can sign the letter here . And if you do n't think net neutrality is going to help your business thrive , think again . Read more about net neutrality here on Tech . Co