The phrase ' it 's about who you know not what you know ' is still alive and kicking for VCs and for most the best way to get VC funding is to get recommended . " I get referrals from people that I trust so in that sense , there is no science to it , it 's more of an art , " says Chen .   " If you do n't have a lot of brand recognition , it 's hard to get recognition with VCs . The first thing is not to see it as a transaction but to see it as building relationships , " Newman tells Techworld . Understanding not only how VCs work but the relationship you 're entering into is crucial to securing VC funding and making better business decisions .   " I think a lot of entrepreneurs do n't understand gravity of taking someone else 's money , then they wonder why investors have an opinion about things and get frustrated when you do n't react to their advice , " says Newman . " If you want cheap easy money that is n't going to start a clock ticking down straight away , do n't go to a VC , " adds Newman . Any business pitch , interview or presentation can fall apart of you do n't have a strong understanding of your field . This is the same for VC pitches . " The biggest turn offs are those that you can tell do n't have depth or understanding of the space . Maybe they 've read a few articles about the space and got excited about it but at the end of the day , entrepreneurs fail because they lack depth , " says Chen . " If they lack a depth of knowledge of their particular space [ startups ] do n't even know why a VC is not interested in them , " he adds . Unsurprisingly , VCs receive a lot of pitches and will see though any startup founders that lack enthusiasm in both the pitch and the business .   " I think the better pitches are thoughtful and take an interesting perspective on things . That 's always a good starting point , " says Chen . " Great investors are generally great readers of people . They have excellent bullshit detectors and excellent pattern recognition . You know when there 's not enough data and too much story , " says Newman . " I 've sat in meetings before where an entrepreneur is talking and I 'm 20 minutes in and I think , I do n't care if you 're going to be a billion dollar company , I do n't know what you 're saying and I do n't click with you , " he adds . Like going for a new job , startups should make sure their experience is highlighted and they supports your pitch throughout . " One of the first things we do is look at their experience . Are they credible ? Not only should they have a big vision but can they do what the actually say they can do ? " says Chen . Keeping things simple is the best way to put your point across and secure the respect of the VCs you 're pitching to . " If you ca n't express what you believe in one or two lines in a clear way then you probably do n't understand it , you do n't understand the problem , you do n't understand your own product and you do n't know how to get it to market , " says Chen . " Investors know when they 're being told what they want to hear . You have to cut out all of the fluff and just get to the data points that are going to matter . " So do you have real proof that you have a product fit for market ? Tell me why your team is awesome , what you 've done together , how much progress you 've made and in what period of time and if you have any clue what leverage you 're going to pull at each round of funding , " says Newman . Separating your startup to the countless others being pitched to VCs will highlight your understanding of not only your business model but of others , and will be a great way to prove to the VC why your startup is better . " You get a lot of the same pitches so then you have to ask them how they are different from others . And if they ca n't explain that then that means you do n't have enough depth of knowledge of your competitors , what others are doing in this space , " says Chen . A two or three minute video will be light relief for VCs and break the cycle of long pitches . " Videos are an easy way of communicating what you 're doing to the VCs . If you think about it I might get 25 pitches a day and if I were to be fair I can only spend about 5 minutes on one so that 's over three hours a day on new companies and only just to see if I should spend more time on them . So that one line or two minute video explains what you do , what you problem is and what your solution is , " says Chen .