Global angel investor network Keiretsu Forum has announced that Seoul , Korea , will be home to its newest chapter . Namho Chung , Keiretsu Forum Seoul Chapter president , said , " Seoul offers tremendous opportunity for entrepreneurs to expand their markets , with channel partners and customers in Korea and the US . " Our new chapter will offer startups across South Korea access to a vibrant local angel community and the opportunity to be part of a well - recognized , international platform for investment . " Chung says says Seoul is the world 's most wired city and it was ranked first in technology readiness by PwC 's Cities of Opportunity report . Seoul is home to over half of all South Koreans and almost 700,000 international residents . Seoul is considered a leading and rising global city , resulting from the economic boom called the Miracle on the Han River that transformed it to the world 's fourth largest metropolitan economy after Tokyo , New York City , and Los Angeles . In 2015 , Seoul was rated Asia 's most liveable city with the second highest quality globally . Randy Williams , Keiretsu Forum founder and CEO , said , " As a global leading technology hub , the Seoul capital area boasts 15 Fortune Global 500 companies such as Samsung , the world 's largest technology company , LG , and Hyundai - Kia . " Seoul is ranked sixth in the Global Power City Index , and Global Financial Centers Index . The city exerts a major influence in global affairs as one of the five leading hosts of global conferences . " We look forward to welcoming both investors and entrepreneurs from the Republic of South Korea to our global network , " he added . Over the past 16 years , Keiretsu Forum members have invested over $ 800 m in 810 companies using its chapter and funding syndication model . Funded in 2000 by Randy Williams , Keiretsu Forum today has 47 chapters in 30 cities and 2600 accredited investor members . Keiretsu Forum members provide early - stage capital in the range of $ 250,000-$2 m to high quality , diverse investment opportunities . The chapters collaborate on Due Diligence but each member makes his / her own investment decisions in the presenting companies .   