UW researchers have generated Passive Wi - Fi transmissions that use 10,000 times less power than current methods . ( Credit : UW via YouTube )   A group of University of Washington engineers has raised capital to develop and commercialize a power - efficient way to generate WiFi transmissions . Jeeva Wireless just reeled in a $ 1.2 million round , co - founder Shyamnath Gollakota confirmed with GeekWire . He declined to provide more details about the cash and how Jeeva will use it , as the Seattle startup is still in stealth mode . The company 's co - founders are the same UW researchers who co - authored a study last year for a Passive Wi - Fi system that can generate WiFi transmissions using 10,000 times less power than conventional methods . Not even low - power options such as Bluetooth Low Energy and Zigbee can match the system 's energy efficiency , based on the study that earned the UW team a place on MIT Technology Review 's top - ten list of breakthrough technologies in 2016 . With the fresh funding , it appears that the company is ready to commercialize its innovation . Other co - founders include Joshua Smith , a UW associate professor of computer science and engineering and of electrical engineering ; Aaron Parks , a graduate researcher at the UW 's Sensor Systems Laboratory ; Bryce Kellogg , a graduate researcher at the UW 's Mobile Systems Lab ; and Vamsi Talla , a research associate at the UW computer science and engineering school . Gollakota , the other co - founder , was named to Forbes ' 30 under 30 list for 2017 . Also listed on the SEC filing for the investment as a director is Easen Ho , an executive at Vantron Technology , a Silicon Valley - based provider of low - power embedded systems . Passive WiFi could open the way for applications that currently require too much power for regular WiFi , according to a UW news release from last year . For example , other types of communication platforms have been required in the past for smart - home sensor systems that can detect which doors are open , or whether the kids have come home from school . " Even though so many homes already have Wi - Fi , it hasn't been the best choice for that , " Smith said in the release . " Now that we can achieve Wi - Fi for tens of microwatts of power and can do much better than both Bluetooth and ZigBee , you could now imagine using Wi - Fi for everything . " The researchers could rev up Passive Wi - Fi to transmit standard signals at bit rates of up to 11 megabits per second , which is n't as fast as the maximum rate for standard Wi - Fi but is 11 times faster than Bluetooth 1.0 . The secret to revving up the rate while cranking down the power has to do with digital vs. analog . The system developed by Smith and his colleagues uses a single plugged - in device for power - intensive analog functions , such as producing a radio signal at a specific frequency . A separate array of sensors produces the Wi - Fi packets of information by reflecting and absorbing the signal , using digital switches that require virtually no energy . Prototype sensors could connect with a smartphone , tablet , or other device at distances of up to 100 feet . " With Passive Wi - Fi , we can envision a true ' Internet of Things ' in which household devices and wearable sensors will be able to communicate using Wi - Fi without worrying about power , " the researchers note in the description from the video below .         