Lighthouse.io , a startup that uses intelligent inputs from Internet of Things ( IoT ) sensors and third party integrations to disrupt unsexy labor based industries like cleaning , security and maintenance , has closed $ 1.25 m in seed funding . Hailing from Australia , Lighthouse.io 's funding was led by Tamarisc , an early stage venture capital firm that invests in real estate technology companies . Companies using Lighthouse.io equip their workers with a mobile app that leverages tech like Bluetooth beacons to deliver contextual information based on their exact position . This includes task lists , instructions , safety content and alerts for service workers at facilities like shopping malls , airports , hospitals and stadiums . The platform provides executives with real - time and historical data about their workforce that enables better decision making around labor management . The end result is more efficient service delivery , improved worker safety and reduced operational costs . Patrick Carne , Lighthouse.io CEO , said , " We see a huge opportunity to disrupt labor based industries that are using extremely inefficient , manual and paper based processes . " From a usability perspective , existing enterprise software platforms have set the bar low . We intend to not only become the system of record for workers in these industries , but to create experiences that delight workers . " Lighthouse.io differentiates from competition by combining a mobile experience with sensor based inputs to understand a worker 's current context and then deliver a highly relevant workflow that helps them be more effective at their job . David Bates from Tamarisc who is joining the board on behalf of the investors , added , " We 've looked at a plethora of location - based technologies that all seemed to be a solution in search of a problem . Lighthouse is different in that it was built from the ground up to address key industry pain points and solve real problems . " This became increasingly apparent the more we spoke with current and potential customers , some from our own portfolio , who raved about how the platform significantly reduces costs and liability while clearly increasing operational efficiencies . We are thrilled to join Lighthouse and look forward to helping it grow and continue delivering value to its customers " Lighthouse.io is already driving operational improvements at shopping malls , airports , train stations and corporate campuses throughout Australia and the United States . The current round of funding will be used to accelerate product development and growth in the US market . It will also facilitate exploration of horizontal markets such as real estate and health care . Joining Tamarisc in the round are Morningside Technology Ventures , a global investor in healthcare , real estate and technology , and Storm Industries Investments . Future features include a flexible If - This - Then - Than ( IFTTT ) rules engine that will be able to detect changes from sensors and other web services and then trigger outputs to relevant workers , integration with existing systems such as time and attendance and work order management , and advanced analytics capability .   