The world of finance and banking can often seem confusing and inaccessible , even to the most clued - up customer . Add to that a vast , bewildering array of new fintech companies and challenger banks and it 's virtually impossible to know whether you 're getting a good deal or not . However , one recently - launched startup called Bud promises to cut through the noise .   Its app provides one place where you can manage all your finances ( be it a current account , credit card or savings account ) , which it calls its ' universal banking platform ' .   Bud also plans to launch a ' marketplace ' where you can compare different available products before choosing one , a feature it expects to launch in the coming weeks , cofounder and CEO Edward Maslaveckas tells Techworld . This will include ' intelligent assistant ' technology which will tailor recommendations based on your answers to questions . " The closest current competitor would probably be Moneysupermarket . But this will have a couple of hundred fintech companies when it 's built . It 's huge . Also the system will understand your banking and finance data , helping to take out guesswork and point you in exactly the right direction , " he says . Bud launched in September 2015 and released its app in July 2016 . The company has been self - funded to this point but plans to raise its first round of capital in February 2017 . The eight - strong team , led by two cofounders , has recently been joined by fintech veteran David Brear as non - executive director and is set to expand further next year .   It 's still early days for Bud , with 2,000 users testing its app in beta . " We 've not really pushed it massively yet . At the moment it 's mainly just making the platform work for people . We 've had lots of great , useful feedback , " Maslaveckas says . Bud is part of the Financial Conduct Authority 's regulatory sandbox ( which lets companies test innovative new financial products in a live environment ) , the innovative aspect here being algorithmic matching to match people and financial products . " You do n't get that level of personalisation with a comparison site or a human . It 's very difficult to understand all the products out there . That 's a task technology is better at , and it means you can be served in a more intelligent , personalised way , " Maslaveckas explains . The app itself is currently available online on desktop and on iOS devices . It has a simple , intuitive interface and the process of integrating bank accounts is painless .   It uses two - factor authentication and can currently connect with American Express , Barclays , First Direct , HSBC , Lloyds Bank , Natwest or RBS accounts ( with more to join over the next two years ) . There will also be fintech companies like Nutmeg , Azimo , PensionBee and bigger players like Western Union available eventually . The section of the app that is available at the moment - the ' universal banking platform ' - is still quite basic . Testing an account on it , the ' insights ' section categorises spending overwhelmingly as ' general ' ( then ' food and drink ' , ' transport ' , and ' personal finance ' ) , which does n't actually provide much of what you could dub insight . However , as Bud have been keen to emphasise , it 's still early on in the app 's development and only a small proportion of the eventual functionality is available . Beyond the new ' marketplace ' feature , Bud plans to deploy new functionality such as ways to allocate whether spending is a business or personal expense , plus functions for joint accounts . " We will add in lots of little tools . Each of those are an opportunity to optimise your financial world a little bit . We will be agnostic to platforms and providers , figuring out what people want and do n't want . It 's very individual which is what we want , " Maslaveckas says . However he does admit " the challenges from a tech perspective are quite high . Optimising individuals and building assistants is tough " . Maslaveckas tells an anecdote about finding a letter from his mum 's bank manager sent to her to congratulate her when she got married . " We have lost that personal touch with banking . We 're trying to get that back . It 's an app that works with all the providers , but it 's also mine , my tool which advises me , " he says .