Fintech was created to rattle the legacy industry that is banking . From lending and investing to deposits and customer service , fintech companies are built with an agile infrastructure designed to reinvent the financial system . These companies can operate quickly and efficiently , something banks have struggled to do in the digital era . However , big banks are resilient . The big players have survived numerous disruptions , most recently the invention of the internet and the dot - com boom . At the end of 2015 , the US banking system had $ 15.967 trillion in assets . It supports the world 's largest economy with the greatest diversity in banking institutions and concentration of private credit . For comparison , VB Profiles found the fintech industry to be worth just $ 870 billion in current value . As more startups emerge and veteran fintech firms become more sophisticated , the conflict between fintech and traditional banking grows . Banks have a vast rolodex of loyal customers , while fintech offers convenience and efficiency , both of which are required to enjoy success in the finance world . " Instead of continuing to build a divide , fintech and banks must leverage their strengths and work to collaborate , creating an infrastructure that is advantageous for consumers , " said Patrick Koeck , COO of Creamfinance , an online finance company . Brick - and - mortar banks may seem old school , but they are far from obsolete . Banks like JP Morgan Chase and Wells Fargo are some of the biggest financial institutions in the world and are staples of the economy . Wells Fargo , for example , has nearly 9,000 branches and over 13,000 ATMs across the country . Banks are deeply rooted in our economy ; they hold a monopoly on credit issuance and are a primary repository for deposits . Even more uniquely , banks are trusted by consumers at a level fintech companies are aiming for . Given the propensity of consumers to demand ease of use , convenience , and 24 - 7 access , the growth of the fintech market should come as no surprise . According to McKinsey , nearly $ 23 billion of venture capital and growth equity has been deployed to fintech companies over the past five years , and this number is growing quickly : $ 12.2 billion was deployed in 2014 alone . Fintech companies came to fruition to fill the void and serve the financially disadvantaged . Now , younger , more digitally savvy consumers demand such services that are personalized , emphasize seamless , or on - demand access to an added layer of service separate from the underlying platform . And it does n't stop with person - to - person payments or online banking . Augmented reality , virtual chats , and big data are all going to be crucial when it comes to communicating with customers . The challenge for fintech startups and big bank incumbents is whether to continue to work in silos or consolidate their strengths for near term and long term prosperity . " Fintech companies have garnered a reputation for trying to unbundle the traditional banking infrastructure , but that is not always the case , " says Koeck . " Due to the better and speedier access to data Fintech companies happen to be more nimble . Smart data provides us with up - to - date knowledge about our consumers , and therefore we 're able to react quickly to their expectations . By pairing modern analytics with traditional banking , we have the potential to advance the global economy . " While it is unlikely that fintech companies will capture all financial services , such as person - to - person payments , international transfers , money management , etc . , it is undeniable that they can offer traditional banking an array of valuable partnership opportunities . " The speed of financial technological innovation means that big companies and banks have to collaborate with entrepreneurs and academics to keep up with the pace of change , " said Katherine Manuel , SVP of Innovation at Thomson Reuters . " At the same time , startups and academics need the business input to scale , fund and provide relevance in highly regulated markets . " Read more about fintech growth here on Tech . Co