  Limitless today announced a partnership to integrate its character building technology into High Fidelity , the virtual reality " metaverse " created by Second Life founder Philip Rosedale . Those using High Fidelity 's open source software toolset , which lets people create shared VR environments , will now be able to build interactive characters with Limitless ' technology starting on Wednesday . Limitless , a Bellevue - based startup created by former Pixar and Bungie character designer Tom Sanocki , last year launched a platform that lets anyone -- film companies ; advertisers ; educators ; regular consumers ; etc . -- create interactive virtual reality characters . High Fidelity , meanwhile , debuted its beta product one year ago . Rosedale previously built online virtual world Second Life ; his new company is similar , but geared toward virtual reality . It raised an $ 11 million Series A round led by Vulcan Capital in February 2015 and reeled in another $ 22 million this past December . " Our partnership with High Fidelity opens up the creation of VR interactive characters to far more people , " Sanocki said . " Now you do n't need to be an game developer to build an interactive character -- a user can simply create one on High Fidelity by editing a text file , or if you 're more technically inclined , you can extend it using JavaScript . " High Fidelity users will be able to create characters that respond to voice , gestures , and other human social cues , similar to how Limitless ' technology was used in this VR experience . " VR worlds are made more alive and believable by emotional connections to characters within them . " Philip Rosedale said in a statement . " We want to give people the ability to easily create interactive characters , getting as close as possible to the magical experience of having other living people in the space with you . " Sanocki said the partnership will " give us a glimpse into the future of VR . " " High Fidelity 's users are generally pro - sumers with basic technical knowledge , and range from educators to enthusiasts to professional animators , " he said in a statement . " Our integration within High Fidelity further validates that our storyteller - first approach to interactive characters is ready for widespread adoption . " In October , Limitless rolled out its animated character development toolset for developers to leading film and animation studios . The 12-person company has raised investment from music and film producer Jay Rifkin , who worked on " The Lion King " film 's original score ; and Masi Oka , a game startup leader and former Industrial Light & Magic digital effects artist better known as the character Hiro from the NBC series " Heroes . " Limitless was also just accepted into HTC 's Vive X accelerator fund and named former Dreamworks Animation executive Ian Richter to its advisory board . Recent hires include new COO Pamela Choy , who was previously a member of Pixar 's senior management team , and Jon Collins , the new creative director and head of animation who has experience at companies like ToyTalk , Pixar , Blue Sky , ILM , and Blizzard .