Steven Koltai speaks at InBIA in Seattle on Monday . ( GeekWire photo )   Can entrepreneurship promote political stability and peace in countries around the world ? Steven Koltai certainly believes so . The long - time startup junkie , who was most recently a senior advisor for entrepreneurship at the U.S. Department of State under former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton , spoke at the 31st International Conference on Business Incubation hosted by InBIA , a global network of entrepreneurs , in Seattle on Monday . After launching two companies and working as an investment banker , management consultant , and media industry executive , Koltai took a job with the U.S. government under Clinton in 2009 and helped create the Global Entrepreneurship Program , which focused on job creation via entrepreneurship in Muslim - majority countries . Koltai , who now runs his own consulting company , rehashed some of the main takeaways from his book , Peace through Entrepreneurship . " I wrote this book based on one simple premise : joblessness is the single biggest cause of political unrest and violence in the world , " Koltai said . " And the single best way to create jobs is through entrepreneurship . There is a straight line connection between entrepreneurship , jobs , political stability , and peace . " Koltai is focused on how the U.S. can help spur entrepreneurship in developing countries , many of which do not have the resources or cultural norms that help promote startup creation . Unsurprisingly , many people ask him why the U.S. should be involved in job creation abroad , rather than doing the same at home . He said this type of outreach directly impacts the U.S. itself -- particularly with security . Koltai noted how " all of the wars since World War II , we have lost . " " We probably should have learned that traditional warfare is not making us safer ; it is not making the world more peaceful , " he explained . " So maybe we could take a tiny , tiny , tiny portion of what we spend on what is by far the the largest discretionary spending area of government , and spend it on an alternative method of security creation , which is job creation . " Koltai provided evidence of how joblessness in different countries going through crisis creates unrest -- that in turn can threaten international security , he said . " Huge rates of unemployment generally drives people , especially young people , to desperation , " Koltai said . He also showed how countries that invest and encourage entrepreneurship can create wealth much faster than those who do not , both on an individual basis and on a national economy basis . For example , Singapore and Jamaica shared many similarities in 1965 -- island countries , British colonies , similar populations , same per - capita income , etc . But fast forward to today and Jamaica is one of the poorest countries in the world while Singapore is one of the wealthiest . " Part of the driver of that wealth was a focus on entrepreneurship and improving the business climate that existed in Singapore , " Koltai said . " From a purely economic standpoint , it was transformative . " Koltai hopes that the U.S. will spend more of its foreign aid budgets on entrepreneurship promotion . He said the U.S. spends less than countries like Canada , Sweden , and The Netherlands in absolute dollars . " Not only do we spend very little , but we spend it very badly , " he added . So how do cities and countries promote entrepreneurship ? Koltai developed a " Six + Six Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Model , " which highlights the six actions he believes is required to create more jobs and companies ( click to enlarge ) :   " We believe that only through this comprehensive , holistic approach can true progress toward a healthy entrepreneurial ecosystem be achieved , " Koltai writes on his site .