startup pitches . Company : Reason . Headquarters : San Francisco . Founding Team : Crina Oana Bordas , Mike Chen and Jeff Chen . Why we like it : Because trapping your team members together in a closed room sounds fun ... especially as the powerful CEO . That is until your team members drag you in with them .     Team work can really make or break a business . If the team meshes well and collectively believes in their work , so does the service and product . But you also want to be having fun . All work and no play , makes Jack a dull boy . So do something fun innovative with the team . Reason embeds game mechanics and advanced technology to create innovative team - bonding activities . We 're not talking about simple online games , chats or puzzles . We 're already in the second decade of the 21st century . It 's time to bring about full blown rooms packed with interactive puzzles , virtual reality engagement , robotic confrontations . They have over 50,000 startups in their network with AI , Robotics , IOT , Drones , HCI and VR . Yep they 've got the tech gear in line . Bringing your business team to Reason , not only forces participation with up and coming tech but with each other . Surely not everyone can be a whizz at all these gadgets . Reason has an activity they 've called the Escape Room . This is a real life adventure in which players are trapped inside a room , with nothing but what they are given to figure out a way to escape . Let 's give you visuals . Imagine a giant reactor . Something like a closed cylindrical room , gadgets lining the walls , blue lights illuminating your vision and screens talking tech to you . But something 's gone wrong . What are you suppose to do ? The only help you can find is from your teammates and the top - notch tech scattered around the room . Within two hours you need to discover the clues , make observations and recognise patterns to shutdown the reactor in time and escape before the whole thing explodes . If time pressure , innovative gadgets , forced communication and hand ons work does n't get the blood pumping and the conversations flowing , then well , maybe more than just the reactor is going to explode .   