Anyone who has ever been a caregiver for an aging loved one is well acquainted with the anxieties that accompany such a role : Is Nana safe while home alone ? Is mum 's bedroom warm enough in the middle of winter ? Is grandpa wandering out of the house in the middle of the night ?    There are currently 3 million UK citizens tasked with a seemingly impossible juggling act every day : Balancing a full - time job with caregiving responsibilities . One in six individuals in the UK , in fact , ultimately chooses to give up work in order to care for an elderly loved one --which has a significant impact upon a caregiver 's ability to go about daily life , as well as a ripple effect upon families .      Howz , a startup that pairs home - monitoring technology with a routine - tracking app to keep families connected with their elderly loved ones , hopes to ameliorate some of these common issues .    The app taps into existing systems such as a home 's electricity meter , and uses machine learning and long - term analytics to track daily activity patterns -- all without requiring use of a wearable or invasive devices . Eventually , the app may also pair with a variety of smart - home devices to provide a more robust activity profile . Howz products can be purchased online , and a trained installer will come to users ' homes to walk them through the system ( self - installation is also an option ) . Upon set - up , the Howz team speaks extensively with users to develop a custom - tailored monitoring plan based on individualised goals and living situations .    Louise Rogerson , the company 's director of service development , says that this holistic approach to   routine - monitoring is not only effective , but that it 's also one of the most affordable such systems on the market today . Rogerson , who comes from a background in neurophysiotherapy , also touts the technology 's minimally invasive nature : Most of the data points that Howz monitors ( electricity usage , home temperature , etc . ) are already being recorded in most people 's homes . More data   -- door movement , light levels , etc . -- can easily be monitored without an obtrusive or complicated device . Then , Howz brings all of the information into a single ecosystem .     " It became very clear early on that we needed something passive that was n't a wearable -- so that the house could do the talking , " Rogerson tells Mashable . " We needed something that did n't require a huge effort [ on the part of the user ] . That 's where the combination of movement , daily routine , etc . comes in -- that 's the key indicator for me , as a therapist , when somebody is starting to have a problem . Way before I see anything else , I see that . " Sometimes , says Rogerson , simply making people aware of activity patterns can lead to improvements -- or raise red flags before a situation becomes dire . The technology can be particularly helpful for personnes with early - stage dementia .   Image :    The Howz team comes from a varied background . Jonathan Burr , the company 's CEO , comes from a past life in finance and traffic data analysis . The team also employs a mathematician and an R&D specialist to help build out the app 's algorithms and analytics . Obviously , as the company continues to grow -- Howz currently has fewer than 100 active users , but hopes to eventually become commonplace technology in thousands of homes -- it will need to scale accordingly . There are already plans in place for anticipated growth , says Rogerson . In February , Howz was awarded the EDF Energy Pulse Award for Connected Home and Business . As a result , the company received a PS30,000 grant , as well as support from Blue Lab ( an innovation accelerator programme ) , to determine the optimal way to bring Howz into homes on a large - scale level . " We 've got quite a clear vision of where we can go with this , " says Rogerson . " There are already countless hypotheses that monitoring [ change to routine ] is important -- and more clinical research coming out agrees . Our product is able to do this extremely well . "  