Digital All Stars is a series of articles which aims to celebrate the best of South African digital . The articles , which will appear on Memeburn and Ventureburn , recognise and celebrate South Africa 's best digital entrepreneurs , business people , advertisers , and media professionals among others . In this piece we take a look at all of the interesting ( and one or two controversial ) changes that SA startups have gone through in 2016 . With that in mind , we compiled a list of companies to watch for in the year ahead .   Easily one of the most popular Bitcoin wallets worldwide , BitX launched out of Stellenbosch in 2013 . Since then the company has seen substantial growth , raising US$ 4-million from Naspers in 2014 and an undisclosed amount from Venturra Capital in 2015 . Besides the funding , BitX expanded on its product ranges by allowing customers to purchase airtime and products from Bid or Buy with Bitcoin , as well as a partnership with virtual card system Zazoo . This year , the company has already taken a lead forward by shedding off the technical name of BitX and adopting the more consumer - friendly name of Luno . The company is also expanding into the UK . This startup is one of two on this list using Blockchain in interesting ways . Custos is trying to kerb movie piracy . Originating from the famed Stellenbosch LaunchLab in 2015 , the co - founders wanted to do something different with Blockchain , which they did . It seems that the idea has impressed more than a few people as Custos received R4-million in funding in April last year , and another R5.9-million from the Technology Innovation Agency in August . With Hollywood always looking to fight movie piracy , this is one startup you 're bound to hear more of . This crowdsourcing newcomer aims at providing feedback to products of brands / agencies through its innovative crowdsourcing systems . In May 2016 , Delvv.io received an R2-million cash injection from veteran investor Kevin Gaskell , and another R6.5-million raised by SA VC HAVAIC and Gaskell later in the year . The company was also crowned the winner of the Ventureburn Pitching Den , which was held at the 2016 Innovation Summit in Johannesburg , and secured its spot at the Startup World Cup . With all of these achievements , it will be interesting to see what Delvv.io gets up to in 2017 .   Probably the biggest rival to SweepSouth , on - demand cleaning service Domestly had a fruitful 2016 . The company beat out 450 other entries to take home the MTN App of the Year Award . Domestly also used its existing traction to scale its business within SA , stretching operations to Pretoria , Midrand and Centurion . Shortly after entering those various areas , Domestly introduced a subscription service whereby you could book your favourite cleaner for a three to 12-month period . To top off the year , Domestly took home the Best Disruptive Innovation Award at the AppsAfrica Awards . This recruitment app is easily one of the biggest highlights in the South African startup ecosystem . Last year , the company was chosen to represent SA in the Seedstars World pitching finals and went on to bag first place and a cool US$ 500 000 in equity investment . This startup also concluded an undisclosed funding round with the Omidyar Network . All of this from a company that only launched in 2015 . iKhokha deviated from other fintech startups by cracking the consumer market when it rolled out PoS terminals for purchases in Game stores across the country . Months after this announcement , iKhokha doubled up on its offering by allowing merchants to receive cash advancements to help grow its businesses . Three months after this announcement iKhokha partnered with Mastercard to try and roll out 700 PoS terminals to businesses within informal settlements . iKhokha then later went on to win the Mastercard Innovation Award at the Mastercard Innovation Forum in Hungary .   This health tech startup launched at one of the biggest global tech events CES Las Vegas in 2015 . LifeQ has the backing of some major Fortune 500 companies and angel investors . Some of which include former corporate vice president in charge of the Internet Explorer team at Microsoft Dean Hachamovitch , CEO of Dakine and former vice president of Nike Running Chris Donnelly . In mid-2016 , LifeQ also partnered with US Analog Devices and Garmin to create its " connected health solution " . This micro - jobbing platform has undergone some interesting changes since its launch in 2014 . Not only has the startup receive investment from WeChat , it also acquired the services of Google 's Brett St. Clair ( though he has since left ) , and bought digital market research company Pondering Panda . Last year the company stated it was looking for a buyer , and founder Andre Hugo confirmed it may have to shutter if one could n't be found . Users were also asked to cash - out their earnings before 31 March . Hugo later confirmed that the company was sold to Informal Solutions and exited with a re - launch coming soon . Since then , the startup has been rather quiet . Maybe 2017 is the year of its comeback ? Started by brothers Malan and Philip Joubert , OfferZen burst onto the SA startup scene last year . Taking what they had learned in Silicon Valley , the pair started this curated job platform just for programmers and technical specialists . Just months after launching , OfferZen saw phenomenal growth and helped 250 companies find employees through the platform . This included the likes of Superbalist , Takealot , and Snapscan . Couple that with an impressive month - to - month growth of well over 40% , and you 've got a tech startup that 's bound to make more waves in the coming year . All of this from a bootstrapped company too .   This fintech company , which launched in 2012 , had an interesting 2016 . At the beginning of the year the startup announced that Absa , which already held a 49% stake in it , would offer the startup 's services to its clients . In November the company announced it would be buying back its shares from Absa . The startup then added R100 m business retail loans to its offering . Whatever 2017 may hold for RainFin , the company will be an interesting one to watch as it creates a new image away from Absa and for itself . Founded by husband and wife Aisha Pandor and Alen Ribic , the startup came onto the SA scene in 2014 when it won the Get - Up Start - Up pitch award . In 2015 it announced a seed funding round , and joined the 500 Startups programme in Silicon Valley later that year . Early last year the startup secured R10-million in funding , which is a pretty substantial amount . It also expanded to Durban and finally launched a mobile app . Is there no stopping SweepSouth in 2017 ? We 'll just have to wait and see . Snapt , which launched in early 2012 , provides secure application delivery software which recorded more than 1000 global clients representing 10 000 licenses . In June 2016 Snapt raised R15-million in capital from Convergence Partners . This influx of funds propelled Snapt 's international expansion . Snapt was also a finalist at the 2016 Seedstars World Soweto event .   The second interesting digital currency company on our list ( not just using it for money transfer services ) , The Sun Exchange uses Bitcoin for solar energy investment . Last year the company was not only named the best Blockchain and Bitcoin company in SA at the Finance Africa Conference , but also placed first in the Bitcoin and Block Exchange category at the African FinTech Awards . This online income tax calculator has made its way around the startup scene somewhat having launched in 2012 . TaxTim founders Marc Sevitz and Evan Robinson have scaled TaxTim gradually throughout the years . Rolling out various services such as direct filing to SARS , receiving funding from MMI holdings , and developing systems to serve SMEs with its tax completion tools . TaxTim also enjoys backing from 15 tax professionals at PwC. Verification service ThisIsMe launched in Septemeber 2014 and has since landed US$ 2.5-million in funding last year . This substantial investment was intended to be used to expand into international territory , namely Australia and New Zealand . 20 major companies which include two banks , insurance companies , and many others have already signed up to the service .   WeFix ( formerly known as iFix before last year 's name change ) has opened 33 stores and fixes a range of phones from Apple to LG . It has also launched many services and products such as Plus , a protection plan for apple devices , RiCharge and Houdt . WeFix will have an additional 3 stores open by the end of March . In 2016 the company not only rebranded but expanded its product offering to go beyond Apple products . WeFix has also teamed up with FNB since the bank launched its ConeXis smartphones . During the Pokemon Go phase , the team ramped up sales of its charging stations and have been in talks with Uber about a RiCharge solution . Another fintech startup , Zoona initially launched to help bank the unbankable , or those without banking facilities or access to the financial establishments . In 2016 Zoona had already accomplished a number of stellar achievements . In April the company announced it had processed more than US$ 1-billion in transactions , and later went on to raise an additional US$ 15-million in funding in August . Finally , Zoona won the Social Entrepreneurship award at the Africa Awards for Entrepreneurship . It will be interesting to see not only how the company grows in 2017 , but what it will be doing with that cool US$ 15-million in funding . Thank you to Andy Walker and Matthew Alexander for assisting with editing and research for the feature . Update : Additional clarity to M4JAM and WeFix . Nothing about Brandchat . Social ?