For any business , managing employee efficiency and workflow is often a strenuous task , especially when the dealing with medium to larger sized teams .   Things become even more complicated when the business is operating in larger facilities such as airports and shopping malls , where it becomes near impossible to track an employee 's movements over a large area . While the market is compacted with project management platforms that help streamline employee administration and organisation , none comprehensively address the location - based issue that businesses operating in larger spaces face when it comes to employee management .   Harnessing the power of location technology , startup Lighthouse.io has developed a cloud - based workforce management platform looking to solve the issue , by enabling employers to accurately locate and interact with their employees .   Operating through an app of the same name , Lighthouse.io uses Bluetooth beacons to detect an employee 's location and track their whereabouts .   As cofounder Ben Howden explained , a manager is able to view the collected data via a web - based management console , informing one the app 's key benefits of helping to " optimise " employee efficiency . " Existing app - based solutions in the same space typically do n't take into account a staff member 's exact location when presenting or collecting information , " Howden said . To make the most out of the location and analytical features , the app is targeted at businesses operating within industries where employees are required to move around a lot , such as cleaning and security .   Train stations , large corporate campuses , airports , hospitals , and stadiums are among the startup 's target sites . Taking a shopping mall as an example ; the app would work by first having each worker within the , say , cleaning team , provided with a mobile device and bluetooth beacon at the beginning of their shift . Howden explained that the startup can provide businesses with phones that have the app installed , but they do also support a " BYO devices " approach . The Lighthouse.io mobile app installed on the mobile device is able to detect signals being broadcast by Bluetooth beacons deployed at a site " The range of the beacons is configurable and usually set anywhere from two metres to 30 metres , but we also use GPS where beacons are n't appropriate , such as large outdoor environments , " explained Howden . Staff managers can create an account for each employee which can then be used to log into the app as their shift begins , a feature which can integrate with certain attendance and payroll softwares to eliminate the need for paper timesheets . The employees continue with their shift , and if a Bluetooth signal is recieved , Lighthouse.io will record the employee 's location and search for any new content that can be sent to the them , such as task lists , reminders , messages , and saftey alerts . " Users can also access other forms on - demand from the mobile app , again eliminating the need for paper forms . Forms typically include task lists , issue reports and audits , however the customer can build any form they want via the web based management console , " Howden explained . Location is n't the only type of data Lighthouse.io tracks , however , as the app can also detect if KPIs are missed during a shift .   " For example , if a bathroom at a train station should be checked by a cleaner every 30 minutes to maintain cleanliness and eliminate risks , our system can monitor if this occurs , " Howden added . All the data collected throughout the day is available through the web management console , which visualises the information through neat graphs and lists .   The idea for the business came to Howden and his cofounders Patrick Carne and Tony Milne during their work at digital solutions agency Inlight Media , where they identified the potential for Bluetooth beacon technology to be used in retail . Following the launch of version one of Lighthouse.io , the cofounders were approached by Australian facilities service provider Spotless to understand if the tech could be used to manage a cleaning workforce .   " Through our engagement with Spotless we realised there was significant opportunity in facilities management and decided to make that our focus for the product , " said Howden . Beyond ending the need for paper forms , the app also benefits businesses operating within facilities by creating a streamlined method to report issues , collect data and complete audits . " This data helps [ managers ] understand the optimal number of staff required per shift and helps them make better resourcing decisions , " said Howden . Licences for the app are based on a monthly subscription per user , although the startup did n't specify the exact cost , saying it " varies by opportunity " and market .   Recently raising over $ 1 million in seed funding from Tamarisic , a firm focusing on real estate tech , the business is now developing an IFTTT feature that allows its users to create conditional programming statements , in order to notify Lighthouse.io users of particular events and further differentiate the app from similar existing technologies . " For example , if a customer visit count to bathroom exceeds a defined threshold , it can trigger a notification to the nearest cleaner . If staff enters a high risk location , it can trigger a safety notification , " explained Howden .   As for the startup 's central goal in the coming year , Howden said the business will look to grow revenue in the US market while setting the business up for a Series A funding round . He said the business will also begin to " explore " industries such as health and property .