startup stories .    Welcome to the easy solution of following leads and winning sales . Here , we introduce Philip Schweizer , CEO and CoFounder of SalesWings . His Swiss plugin works as an add - on to emails and websites , identifying when leads are visiting a website and notifying the sales team about hot sales opportunities . . Meet the Founder . Philip Schweizer , a key player in the high - tech venture scene has been involved in operating small , agile sales and marketing teams in growing companies for eight years . In 2014 he CoFounded SalesWings to " change the lives of all brave sales people " . Apart from managing this successful startup , he also designs efficient sales and marketing processes for other startups , offering services in business strategies , communications , processes , sales , SAAS and software choices .    What 's So Special About the Service ? SalesWings has been designed with automation in mind . Successful sales come from following up on the right leads , and following them up quickly . SalesWings helps the sales team jump on hot leads quickly by offering email marketing platforms and web forms to track quality leads accurately . A high number of leads does not equal good equality . At SalesWings , their intelligent algorithm analyzes the lead 's website activity 24/7 and categorizes all marketing leads into hot , warm and cold , prioritising the most favourable and urgent lead to benefit your business . This add - on available to websites and emails , identifies visitors and customers to the business website who are ready to purchase or contribute to the company . Through an intelligent behavioural algorithm , SalesWings analyzes data such as the lead 's website activity , their frequency of visits , time they spend on the site and their behaviour to clearly identify most interested customers . The most interested and engaged lead is placed on the top of the list so the sales team can promptly follow up on them . The plug - in will send notifications to the sales team about follow - up opportunities , so they do n't forget .   