We 've seen quite a few ' Tinder for X ' or ' Uber of X ' apps launching in the last year or two , with the car buying industry now receiving one as well , in the form of Carter . A South African app , Carter uses swipe gestures to find a car for you , connecting you to an appropriate dealership in the process . " The Carter app is a world first and has been designed to appeal to all new car buyers . A shortlist of suitable cars can be built by swiping right ( i.e. yes , I like it ) or swiping left ( i.e. not interested ) -- similar to the well - known Tinder app , " read an excerpt of a press release sent to Ventureburn . " The system learns from the user 's actions which then gets them closer to the cars they should be considering . Carter 's uniqueness comes from its app functionality , learning algorithm and the smart discovery process . " In other words , the app learns about your vehicle preferences instead of asking you for an exact manufacturer and model . It takes a number of criteria into account , such as speed , safety , gadgets , maximum passengers and other factors . " The majority of other platforms ask you which make and model car you want . They assume you know what you want or need . Carter 's mission is to empower the consumer . We have built a fun and friendly platform to help you find the right car and then conveniently source great deals from reputable dealers , " said Amit Bholla of Carter . Co - founder Tom Gardner compared Carter to Edgars . " There is n't an Edgars for new cars . There is n't anywhere you can browse hatchbacks or compact SUVs side by side . The problem with this is that there may be the perfect compact SUV out there for you , you just do n't know about it . By creating a virtual showroom that allows people to browse by usage requirements , we have created a virtual Edgars for cars . " The Carter app is available as a free download on Android and iOS . Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Mobile apps