Melbourne online beauty retailer Adore Beauty has bought back the 25 percent stake it sold to Woolworths less than two years ago , with founder Kate Morris saying " our respective goals and priorities were no longer as aligned going forward as they were at the start " . The supermarket chain bought into the ecommerce business in May 2015 for an undisclosed sum ; since then , Morris said the business has grown by 125 percent , with Woolworths ' buy in allowing Adore Beauty to invest in more stock , people , technology , and marketing . Morris was unable to disclose the details of the buy back or the process , but said she had no regrets about the decision to partner with Woolworths rather than going down the venture capital route two years ago . " We have been able to achieve the goals we set out to achieve in terms of business growth and improving the customer experience and for us , having much more impact on the beauty industry in general , " she said . " I found it a really valuable learning experience to work with these experienced retail professionals and I feel like we actually learned a huge amount from it ... to work with a big corporate like that and the amount of rigour and governance required , doing everything properly rather than the fast and loose way you 're used to as a startup , we were kind of at the stage where we needed that . " Moving forward independently , Morris said , will allow the business to explore new opportunities for growth . " There are some things that having a large , strategic investor can preclude or rule you out of a little bit and we felt it was best to be open to new opportunities going forward , " she said . A key opportunity is international growth . After announcing its big foray into China last year with the launch of a storefront on Alibaba 's Tmall platform last year , Adore Beauty quietly shut it down after six months and moved to Pitney Bowes solution Borderfree Retail , an end - to - end platform allowing global customers to access a localised version of a store . " In the interests of failing fast and failing cheap , we decided to put [ Tmall ] on hold , as we became aware quite quickly that it was going to require more time and resources than perhaps we were prepared to allocate to it , " Morris said . The company found that " some experiences are difficult to translate " , Morris said , with differences in the sophistication of shoppers as beauty consumers and which brands resonated , with Adore Beauty finding China a price - focused market . The Borderfree Retail platform will allow the company to test new markets and find what resonates , with English - speaking markets including New Zealand , Singapore , the US , and the UK responding well so far . The decision came as Adore Beauty 's Australian activity began to grow faster than it had projected . The company reports it has added 50,000 customers over the past six months and expanded its range to 12,000 products to include both professional and affordable brands . Morris said , " It 's beauty 's time in the sun . Consumers are embracing beauty as self expression in a way that maybe they were n't 10 years ago , and I think the whole category has good momentum . "