Pluto VR lets you talk to other people within virtual reality apps . ( Pluto VR Photo )   Pluto VR , the Seattle - based virtual reality startup co - founded by PopCap Games co - founder John Vechey , has raised $ 13.9 million in a Series A funding round . The company , which is developing applications for people to communicate within virtual reality , will use the cash infusion to continue research and development , roll out its alpha test to more customers and support additional platforms . Seattle - based Maveron led the round , with participation from Madrona Venture Group of Seattle , Trilogy Equity Partners of Bellevue and other individual investors . Maveron co - founder and General Partner , Dan Levitan , will join Pluto 's board of directors . Maveron , founded by Starbucks Chairman Howard Schultz and Levitan in 1998 , has already backed three VR startups -- Virtuix , an active VR motion gaming platform ; VicariousVR , a connected VR social network ; and Against Gravity , a Seattle - based startup behind the hit VR game " Rec Room . " Anarghya Vardhana , a senior associate at Maveron , explained to GeekWire in February why the firm is so bullish about VR / AR . " We see this as a way in which people interact with the world around them ; with each other ; with entertainment ; with work , " she told GeekWire . " It 's going to be a big computing shift , just like we saw a computing shift with the personal computer and cell phone . " Pluto VR wants to be the application we use to talk to other people who are also wearing a virtual or augmented reality headset . The three - year - old Seattle startup is developing something like Skype or Facebook Messenger -- a communication app that can run on its own , or on top of other experiences -- but for virtual reality . " The purpose of Pluto is to help humanity transcend physical location , " Vechey said in a statement . " While digital technologies today allow us to connect instantly from anywhere in the world with text , voice or video , they are n't necessarily bringing us closer together . With Pluto , you 'll be able to connect with anyone anywhere , as if you were together in person . " GeekWire visited Pluto 's Seattle headquarters late last year and checked out its VR communication system . Pluto was a Seattle 10 company in 2015 , and it employs 17 people at its Ballard office , which was previously occupied by pet insurance company Trupanion . It 's much too large of a building for your typical 17-person startup , but it 's perfect for Pluto given the technology it is building . The extra space and individual offices allow the company to better test its software . From its own app control panel , Pluto lets you create your own avatar , control the opacity of each person , mute mics or make " calls " to other people without needing an avatar , and more . For now , Pluto only uses avatars that show faces and hand movements -- which are trackable with headsets and accompanying controllers . Vechey said the company has no immediate plans to release its product more broadly , and that Pluto VR is focused on getting the little things right with alpha customers and rolling out slowly .