The 1st annual Columbus Startup Week Pitch Competition kicked off on May 8 , the first evening of the five - day entrepreneur celebration . The best of Columbus gathered on stage to present their pitches in competition for $ 50,000 in advertising prizes from sponsor Dispatch Media Group , as well as for the attention of media , investors , and customers . Pitch judges , according to the official site of the competition , included " top VCs and entrepreneurs looking for innovative companies to grow to the next level . " The names : Matt McDonough , of Drive Capital ; Brian Zuercher , of SEEN ; Craig Chambers , the head of Office of Small Business and Entrepreneurship for the State of Ohio ; Erica Conroy , Ph.D. , Director of New Product Development at CoverMyMeds ; and Stefphanie Harper , Chief Marketing Officer of the City of Columbus . While 40 startups applied , a total of six finalists were chosen to offer their pitches , which they gave following the Opening Night Happy Hour presented by Chase for Business . Here 's a look at all six . But first , let 's see who came out on top : CleanTurn Enterprises , a social entrepreneurship company , took home the grand prize of an advertising campaign worth $ 25,000 . CleanTurn 's mission is to : " Strengthen communities with an empowered workforce by creating profitable social enterprises . " They currently operate three brands -- CleanTurn Demolition Services , SHAN Cleaning Services , and Passion Purpose Profit -- but cite their primary purpose as " creating the platform for individuals to realize their potential as human beings . " The second place winner of a $ 15,000 ad campaign was the startup Aunt Flow , a tampon subscription box service that donates a box of tampons to those in need for each box bought . Thanks to general squeamishness , the need for tampons often goes unaddressed , but the startup estimates that 26.4 million living in poverty in the United States have to choose between food and tampons . Grypshon nabbed the third place prize for an ad campaign worth $ 10,000 , thanks to the products it creates , which rely on their high friction surfaces to hold tools while at work . Other great startups that pitched at the event include Healthy Roster , an injury documentation tool that aids athletic trainers in outreach , and Med - Compliance - IQ , a company that simplifies the process of treating chronic wounds , allowing patients to track their conditions on their smartphones . Similarly , Auditgraph helps streamline the medical process , as it provides innovative labeling solutions for the life sciences industry . In all , the competition presented a wide variety of socially conscious profit - driven startups , all working towards the same goal : Making the world a better place . Congrats to all the winners and finalists ! Read more about startups in Ohio at Tech . Co This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series .