Pictures can be worth a thousand words - and occasionally a lot of money too . For an architect or design firm , selling the perfect design is at the heart of the industry , regardless of whether the showcasing images are simulated from computer software or photographed with the most aesthetically pleasing lighting . Developing a business - to - business ( B2B ) marketplace to help architects sell their imagery to product suppliers is Sydney - startup Bookmarc , an online platform slated to enter the market at the end of the month . Bookmarc allows architects to earn cash by " tagging " a supplier 's product featured within their design , or alternatively sell their work to a product supplier , who can input their product range into an architect 's photo to later use for marketing purposes . Looking to fill gaps felt by the two industries , Bookmarc 's marketplace means product suppliers are able to access an affordable and sizeable portfolio of professional work to digitally impose their products into , which can help get that perfect catalogue or Facebook photo . Meanwhile , design firms and architects are able to protect their work behind a secure marketplace , earn cash for tagging products , or sell their designs entirely . Helen Awali , the startup 's founder , who had previously product marketing agency Specix , said developing Bookmarc meant bringing these two spaces together . " Architects need somewhere to market their service and attract business . Then we have product suppliers like Bluescope that need photo imagery of where their products are used in projects , and they actually do n't have any , " said Awali . Bookmarc did n't start out as a B2B marketplace , but rather a cloud - based product library for product suppliers , allowing them to upload their project files , such as images and CAD files of their products , for architects to use in their designs . That was back in 2013 , but it was last year that Awali decided she had gathered enough feedback from her audience to pivot in the new direction . " I realised early on for these [ architects ] in the commercial space , there 's not a lot of marketing platforms out there , like a Pinterest , that allow them to showcase what they 're doing and put their name out there . On the flip side , through our product library , product suppliers would ask , how do we get more engagement using images ? They either did n't have access to any , or they 'd have to render their products into an image they grab from Google [ without copyright permission ] , " said Awali . While these firms were completing designs , according to Awali , there was n't any central online solution to incentivise the architects to sell or monetise their work beyond the traditional means of completing projects for a client . Bookmarc is a way to " open " this additional avenue up . With Bookmarc 's old model growing through word of mouth , Awali said design firms began contacting the business to ask what the benefit of the platform could be for them beyond downloading project files from product suppliers , and if they would be able to monetise their work . Previously , designs of an architect 's that were n't tied to a project were uploaded as a free online portfolio , meaning anyone could gain access . Looking help validate the idea , Bookmarc opened up to architects last year , allowing them to upload their work . The move was met with a strong response over the year , with Awali saying the business onboarded roughly 1500 design firms across Australia , Europe , and the US . " They could create a portfolio and tag in product suppliers . They were n't sure why they were doing it yet , but it gave us a lot of information about what we were doing and the direction we needed to go , " said Awali . To help fund the pivot , Awali looked to Springboard Enterprises Australia , the US - founded accelerator focused on female entrepreneurs . Awali said she wanted to understand how to pitch for capital , where to access it , and gain exposure to the US market through Springboard 's hefty US network . " The US is one of our biggest target markets with all the architecture design firms there , " she said . Participating in this year 's cohort , Awali is now coming up to the end of the four - month program , which wraps up with a final pitch to a crowd of US and local VCs . " Even though the program only goes for four months ... you get a coaching team to look over your pitch deck , your revenue , and you get to network . I think , as women sometimes as well , we 're not as confident , so they really instill that into you , " she said . Once in market , Bookmarc 's new model will work by having product suppliers verify each product tag an architect pins in their design . If verified , the architect will be able to earn revenue off the tag . Looking ahead , Awali said the model used by Bookmarc could have opportunities in other industries too which hold similar issues to design firms and product suppliers , although the focus for the meantime will be on getting the platform into market and expanding revenue sources .