The incredible success that entrepreneurs like Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs were able to have without completing higher education programs established a sentiment that earning your degree might not be necessary to make it big in the startup world . Although schooling has always been an important part of learning tricks of the trade for fields like accounting , marketing , and medical , entrepreneurs have traditionally felt like the higher education funding programs and curriculum available did n't quite fit their needs . Fortunately , universities and scholarship providers across the nation are starting to hear aspiring entrepreneurs ' cry for support . Over the past few years , universities , colleges , and technical schools have begun installing programs and resources designed specifically to fit the needs of entrepreneurial - minded students . Many have gone beyond simply adjusting curriculum or adding courses and have created entire buildings specifically for entrepreneurial - focused programs . Here are four ways higher education is working to become a major player in the future of the startup world . Business incubators have been in schools across the U.S. since the 1950s . Although their traditional roots of providing aspiring business owners with the tools and resources they need to get started have not changed , the type of businesses they focus on has begun to change . Incubators are now more focused on businesses within the tech sphere , which caters more to the startup world . Schools are listening to what their students are asking for and providing entrepreneurs who are interested in the startup world with the guidance , materials , and programs they need to get a leg up in the industry . The Simone Center at the Rochester Institute of Technology provides students with degree programs and curriculum designed specifically to nurture entrepreneurial minds and build upon tech - focused business models . The center takes on students at all levels to provide them with the resources and guidance they need to take their ideas to the next level . Another on - campus incubator the startup world is excited about is the Harvard Innovation Lab . The program provides innovation challenges , cross - university courses , and startup launch labs to help Harvard students build and launch their startups while completing their coursework to earn their degrees . Scholarships have traditionally been awarded based on academic achievement or participation in collegiate sports . Although these are both fantastic routes for some students to take as they look for options to fund their higher education efforts , many entrepreneurial - minded students have different interests and talents in the tech sphere that do n't fit within these areas . This is why the addition of creative scholarships over the past few years has helped more entrepreneurs pursue their goals of earning a college degree . Scholarship programs like the video gaming scholarship at Ohio University , the robot competition scholarship from FIRST , and the Intel Science scholarship for research projects provide alternative routes for tech - minded students to fund their schooling with their unique talents . Some schools have taken their incubator programs a step further in providing not only specific programs and resources for entrepreneurs , but special housing as well . The Lassonde Institute at the University of Utah offers up entrepreneur housing that allows students to literally live at the office while they work to bring their ideas to life . The $ 45 million dollar residential building houses 400 students who earn their spot through an application process . Georgetown University also offers student housing for entrepreneurs who would like to experience living where they work during the first year of their college career . One of the most difficult steps an entrepreneur is tasked with on the journey to bringing an idea to life is securing funding . Although this usually involves getting their foot in the door with VCs and crafting an amazing pitch to sell them on an idea , some schools are helping their entrepreneur students make this process a bit easier by setting up venture competitions . Boston College hosts an annual venture competition where students submit their business plans to be reviewed by a panel of judges . The selected winners receive prizes of up to $ 15,000 in funding to help them get a solid start on growing their ideas into profitable businesses . USC Marshall has a competition designed specifically for female entrepreneurs . The Marshall Women 's Pitch Competition accepts submissions from teams of current students who go head - to - head in a pitch - battle . The group of talented students who win this competition are also awarded up to $ 15,000 . Higher education and entrepreneurism are two things that have never seemed to go hand - in - hand in the past . Although there are many successful business owners who have completed their studies while growing their businesses , it seems like some of the most well - known of the bunch left school before they earned their degrees . Fortunately , schools and the programs that support them are changing things up a bit in hopes of becoming a bigger influence on this generation 's biggest names in the startup world .