MIT spinout startup Humanyze supplies biometric badges and accompanying software to companies wanting to track their staff . The five - year - old company is starting to make inroads into the UK market . Techworld spoke to the CEO Ben Waber about what organisations can learn about their staff using biometric tracking , and how to deal with the privacy concerns raised . Humanyze badges look like a normal employee ID badge but are equipped with radio - frequency identification ( RFID ) and near field communication ( NFC ) sensors , bluetooth for proximity sensing , infrared to detect face to face interaction , an accelerometer and two microphones .   The badges ' talk ' to beacons set up around the office to detect proximity . The microphones , which seem inescapably creepy , " do n't record what you say but [ the microphones perform ] voice processing , " Waber explained . " So how much you talk , do you dominate conversations ? Tone , volume , speed . " Waber says all the data is processed in real time and nothing is recorded . It is processed in the cloud and distributed to the relevant employee and managers get an aggregated , anonymised view of their teams . The company combines this physical world data with data from work systems ( primarily Microsoft ) to pull calendar and email usage data ( not content , it says ) . By combining digital communications data with data from the physical world managers can use Humanyze dashboards to get a " holistic view of what goes on in the company " , Waber says . Managers can start to see how they spread their time between people , how different teams talk to one another , if meetings are inclusive enough and how cohesive groups are . Waber says that managers can use this aggregated data to see " what top performers do that others do n't ? You can test how you manage the business , A / B test different [ office ] layouts before implementing them . " Waber says the overall aim is " quantifying the value of employees having coffee together in the age of of working from home . " Employees can also access their own personal dashboards to see " what you do , how you compare to the team average . If you want a different role you can look at what they do . You can start to see how you compare , so benchmarking within your company , " he said . Concerns over workplace monitoring and biometrics came to a head last year when Daily Telegraph journalists objected to their desk time being monitored . The main issue here was around consent . According to Buzzfeed the staff were not asked for consent to be monitored at their desk and only discovered what the devices were after " googling the brand name and discovered they were wireless motion detectors produced by a company called OccupEye that monitor whether individuals are using their desks " . In the UK , Citizens Advice states : " Your employer can legally monitor your use of the phone , internet , email or fax in the workplace if : the monitoring relates to the business ; the equipment being monitored is provided partly or wholly for work ; and your employer has made all reasonable efforts to inform you that your communications will be monitored . " However , " some employers monitor their workers without informing them that this is happening , for example , by use of hidden cameras or audio devices . This is very rarely legal . " Waber says that he thinks these sorts of laws and regulations are out of step with this next phase of physical , biometric tracking in the workplace though . " You need government regulation on this to ensure that people opt in for this stuff , " he said . Waber is naturally keen to avoid this kind of reaction to his technology . So , when an organisation contracts Humanyze they will come into the office to brief staff on how the system works and what is , and is n't , recorded . Everyone signs a disclaimer and there is no obligation to take part . When asked if not taking part could be damaging from a career perspective , in other words , that by even asking employees to take part you are applying implicit pressure , Waber did n't miss a beat : " If you tried to force people you would have a negative impact on the workforce that counteracts any positive effect the tech has , " he said . Furthermore , employees that do n't want to participate can wear a " fake " badge , however he says that generally Humanyze gets 90 percent participation , " so we are generally quite good at communicating the value of this and make sure we do it the right way , " he said . Transparency will be key to adoption of this sort of technology . Waber is unhappy with the tabloid ( and broadsheet ) press coverage Humanyze has been getting in the UK so far , where they tend to exaggerate the privacy concerns . For example , a piece by The Mirror about the company leads with the entirely misleading headline : " Your boss could track you day AND night using new smart technology . " Waber laughed off the headlines , saying that being able to track employees day and night would not only be wrong on a moral level -- " from a privacy perspective it is the wrong thing to do , " he said -- but on a business level too . As he said , trust is vital to Humanyze when it comes to attracting new customers . " Any potential value of that information would be dwarfed by the legitimate negative reaction that people would have , " he explained . In terms of the UK market Waber admits that uptake has been slower than in the US and Japan but he is " seeing uptake in healthcare and financial services " . However he would n't be pushed on which companies are using its services .