If you want to have any hope of achieving lasting success as an entrepreneur , you will need to use digital marketing to grow and expand your startup . Although you will come across a range of online marketing platforms that you can use , not all of them will offer the same results . You will always need to test different things to see what path makes sense for you . As you move forward , you will find that most of these strategies work well together , and that is what makes them so powerful . At the start , people wo n't have any reason to trust you , your products or your services . Because a lot of entrepreneurs have turned to the internet to improve their sales , many platforms have become saturated . Without a way to stand out , you will quickly get left behind , but content marketing is an effective way to combat that problem . Rather than going for the sale right away , offer articles and videos that teach your prospects useful information . If the content with which you provide them can benefit their lives , they will start to trust you , increasing the odds of them buying from you . Social media outlets are a fantastic resource for anyone who wants to grow a business online . Allowing you to target your advertisements based on age , interests , spending habits and more , you can get your message in front of the right audience with ease . Always check for feedback to see how well people respond to your posts ; Facebook and other social media platforms will reward you by reducing the cost of your ads if people enjoy your content . Not only will showing up on the No . 1 page of the search results give you targeted traffic , but it will also improve your credibility ; consumers trust organic results more than paid listings . You will first need to do keyword research to find the right terms and phrases to target . Next , craft engaging content on your website that focuses on the keywords for which you want to rank . In addition to publishing compelling content , using title tags , increasing your website 's loading speed and building internal links are vital onsite SEO steps that you wo n't want to overlook . If you ignore the advantages with which email marketing can provide you , your bottom line will suffer more than you think . People wo n't always buy from you when they visit your sales page for the first time , but you can compel them to join your mailing list by offering an incentive , such as a free video , report or class . You will know that the people who join are interested in your offer , and you can continue to provide them with helpful tips . No matter what you give to your prospects , it should add value to their lives even if they never buy anything from you . Also , you can use email marketing to offer limited discounts whenever you need a quick boost in sales . With guest blogging , you can take advantage of audiences that other influencers have established . Those who run large blogs will often have trouble keeping up with the demand for fresh content , and that is where you come into play . In exchange for offering compelling blog posts , the owner of the blog will place a link back to your website . Some people try to approach influencers without taking the time to interact with their communities , which is a mistake that you must avoid . Always put in the effort to reply to blog posts and comments to build a positive reputation among the existing audience . Once you become a familiar name , you will be ready to approach the owner of the blog with your guest post idea . If something about your startup is worthy of attention , you can use press releases to get your message in front of a lot of people . A press release company will send your story to several news outlets , which can generate plenty of engagement . Even though growing a business can be a challenge , following the right path will allow you to enjoy impressive results . Improved sales and enhanced profitability are what you can expect if you stay on track , and you will be able to take your startup to the next level .