Having to decide what you 're having for supper after a long day at work is an absolute pain . With the majority of people not being professional chefs , going through the hassle of choosing a nice restaurant and then gawking at the bill afterwards is an expensive endeavour . While the South African startup tech scene sees numerous fintech , edtech , and agritech companies launching each year , it 's not often we see companies based around food . Popping up this month , Gutsy Green is a startup that 's aiming to help SA families and couples cook pre - planned restaurant - style food . Ventureburn had a chance to speak to one of its co - founders , Kyle Moore , about the new startup and what it brings to the table . The idea is a simplistic one : an online ' store ' where customers can order a gourmet meal in advance , and then have it delivered with all of the ingredients and instructions on how to create it . It 's true that the idea is n't new , even to the local market with the likes of UCOOK , Daily Dish , and DayToDay , though Kyle is confident the startup has enough to set the company apart from the competition . Besides the presentation that goes into each meal package , which Gutsy Green sees as a core part of their offering , Moore says that something else sets the company apart : " Our prices . Our prices are cheaper than all of the competition in SA . Coupled with a higher quality product and cheaper pricing than our competition , these are our two clear differences . We are able to do this through the profits of our other company . " Gutsy Green was co - founded by Kyle and his wife , Carla - Mari Moore , who is the chef out of the two of them . She completed a BA Humanities degree at Stellenbosch and an International Chefs degree from SACA . Since then , Carla - Mari was head chef at several well - known Cape Town restaurants and opened Gutsy Tutoring with Kyle . The pair self - funded the startup from the Gutsy Tutoring profits . Launching Gutsy Green has been a long process . The initial idea came about in April 2016 , and besides finding the right offices and warehouse for expansion , the tech behind the company was a problem . Read more : Smorgasbord is the food startup incubator you 've been waiting for " One of the hardest parts was the website and to get everything fully functional without any coding experience . This included secured online payments and subscriptions . Juggling time and finding the time between the two businesses was a big one . We learnt to get managers in very quickly in the tutoring business so we could put time into Gutsy Green . " For now , the startup will offer classic , low - carb ( and banting ) , as well as vegetarian options for their meals . Each week , Gutsy Green creates 11 new recipes , which consists of four classic , four low - carb , and three vegetarian selections . The system works by allowing low - carb customers to select any of the 11 recipes . " If you do n't feel like choosing your recipes , we will deliver the pre - selected recipes based on the meal plan you have chosen . If you choose Veg Menu , we will send you only these recipes , " though Kyle adds that customers wo n't be able to substitute vegetation options . Carla - Mari is the one who creates all of the meal options for the customers . " The dishes are created and decided by our chef Carla . She gets inspired by various magazines , TV shows , high profile chefs and then creates her own spin on things . Carla likes to create her own recipes based on the seasonal ingredients in SA so expect some magical recipes . " When Ventureburn ask about more diet options , such as Halaal or gluten - free options , Kyle said there were not immediate plans for them . " If there is demand for the above then we will consider it . We are however planning to launch a bachelor's / solo box for all the single professionals out there . " When asked about expansion , aside from soon launching in Johannesburg and Pretoria , Kyle said : " There are a few plans in the pipeline this year . We will be updating you on them soon . " Cape Town is known for its after - work cocktails , nights out , and food all - around . It will be interesting to see how Gutsy Green not only competes with its direct competition , but customer mindsets as well .