Sydney - based on - demand photography startup Snappr has announced today its expansion into the US with the opening of a San Francisco office and backing from US seed accelerator , YCombinator ( YC ) .   Taking part in the program 's first 2017 batch , Snappr has received US$ 120,000 in funding from YC , forming part of an AU$1.1 million round the business has accumulated over the past six months . Snappr 's cofounder , Matt Schiller , said that getting the backing of YC and expanding into the US market has been a goal for the business since launching mid last year , adding that they had seen strong demand in the market for the service .   " Even before launching here , the demand for what we do was palpable . We 've had many requests to offer services in the US , after over 50,000 users globally made use of our free photo analyser tool last month , " said Schiller . Helmed by Schiller and cofounder Ed Kearney , Snappr aims to mend the " fragmented " photography industry , by providing a simple and affordable way for customers to book a photoshoot .   The platform matches customers with suitable , pre - vetted photographers for occasions such as weddings , graduations and events , based on their search preferences .   The startup 's photo analyser tool uses machine learning and image recognition to rate a user 's LinkedIn profile picture .   Along with its expansion and funding , the business has launched today an updated version of its core platform into the US , which sees the tweaking of a few key features .   Speaking to Startup Daily , Schiller said the Snappr algorithm has been re - worked to provide customers with accurate and simplified search results . " From now on when you book through Snappr you 'll get a match of two or three of the best photographers that are the best match for you , " said Schiller . Prior , users would be instantly matches with a photographer based on their search . Schiller believes that this , combined with the fact Snappr vets and accepts onto the platform the top five percent of photographers applying , will ensure consumers get the right match .   The feature will be in pilot to the end of the month , with Schiller saying the feature will come down under thereafter .   Alongside this change , Snappr is also increasing its on - demand potential by allowing users to book a photographer with an hour 's notice , down from 24 hours when it first launched .   " We open up professional photography to so many more customers this way . And although we all have camera phones in our pocket , at Snappr we see that professional photography really remains only in reach of the elite , " he said . Despite the expansion into the US , Schiller said Australia will remain the " core " of the startup 's operation .   " I think longer term we very much plan to have a foot in both camps and really have the best of both worlds , " he said .   With the YC backing , the startup holds the firm 's president , Sam Altman , as one of its key advisors , Altman saying that investing in Snappr reflects the company 's 2017 aim to support startups outside the US .