When a bartender pours too much liquor in a drink , or someone slips away with a bottle , it can take a toll on a drinking establishment 's bottom line . So Nectar Labs has come up with a solution : the connected pourer and stopper . It uses ultrasound technology and a software platform to precisely measure how much alcohol is left in a given bottle for automating inventory , managing shrinkage ( theft or loss ) and self - replenishing . Nectar says it literally puts a cap on the multi - billion dollar lost revenue crisis that impacts any business with a bar . The Distilled Spirits Council trade group estimates that the bar business is worth $ 200 billion a year worldwide , and shrinkage is as much as $ 50 billion a year . For $ 300 a month , Nectar supplies the hardware and an app to help companies enforce rules against " heavy pours . " The platform is live and is managing more than 100,000 live pours in the W Hotel in Miami and Dosa Restaurant in San Francisco . The company invested more than 50,000 hours of research and development time into the product , which includes more than 2.5 million pours using custom robotic arms in its lab to test for accuracy and durability . ( Yes , somebody has been doing a lot of drinking ) . " Nectar has delivered powerful insights that were impossible to identify before , said Anjan Mitra , owner of Dosa restaurant , in a statement . " These have dramatically improved our operations , ranging from 24/7 inventory management to one - touch ordering , so our bar managers do n't work after hours to keep in - demand liquor in stock . Instead , they can focus on delivering the best possible guest experience and creating amazing cocktails . " Above : Nectar Labs ' app keeps track of what has been poured . The Nectar cap transfers data wirelessly to an app via Bluetooth . Nectar 's caps and associated platform are designed to seamlessly fit a bar 's current operation . The pourer and stopper continuously communicates with the app , keeping track of inventory in real time . When a bottle is finished and replaced , Nectar automatically depletes it from inventory , and when inventory is running low , orders can be placed directly with distributors . That saves bar managers time and money so they can focus on customer experience instead of the stock room . " Nectar is doing for alcohol consumption data what Google did for click - through data . By bringing disciplined metrics to a previously unmeasured space , Nectar is closing the massive information gap to make the bar industry more intelligent and efficient , " said Aayush Phumbhra , cofounder and CEO of Nectar , in a statement . " With sell - through data available in real time , and self - replenishment a reality , Nectar will improve the unit economics of the industry . " Phumbhra and cofounder Prabhanjan " PJ " Gurumohan , chief operating officer , have more than 20 years of consumer experience . " Until now , precise inventory control and management have been guesswork . It 's insanely difficult to track how much bars and restaurants serve -- and lose -- on a given night , let alone over a month or a year , " said Gurumohan , in a statement . " Nectar 's technology tackles this global , multi - billion dollar problem by seamlessly integrating into a bar 's existing operations . It 's accurate , non - invasive , and does n't force the bartender to change how they do their job . " Phumbhra cofounded Chegg , the disruptive solution to expensive textbook purchases , and evolved the company from a boot - strapped startup to a multi - million dollar publicly traded digital learning platform . Gurumohan was the cofounder and CEO of Genwi , one of the largest cloud publishing solutions , and one which is used by more than 1,500 customers , including Conde Nast , Forbes , and PBS . Nectar is currently taking orders for future shipments of its connected pourers and stoppers . The company was founded in 2014 , and its investors include Palantir cofounder and venture capitalist Joe Lonsdale ; Eclipse founder Lior Susan ; founder of Streamlined Ventures , Ullas Naik ; and others . The company has under 20 employees .