Techstars has announced that they 're opening applications for the 2017 class of Techstars Retail in partnership with Target . You can apply online , and applications are open through April 9th and the program starts in July . In case you missed it , the first year of the Techstars Retail accelerator was a massive success . They had 11 startups from all over the world descend upon Minneapolis for the summer .   They received mentorship throughout the program from Target 's senior leadership , successful retail - tech entrepreneurs , and investors from across the country . Their Demo Day was an incredibly exciting event that saw almost 1,000 investors , mentors , Target team members , and supporters from all over the Twin Cities startup community show up and support our companies . Here are some highlights of what was accomplished by our startups during the program : Since the program has wrapped up , Techstars companies have already collectively raised almost $ 15 M , with another $ 5 M to $ 10 M coming soon . Stay tuned , as many more partnerships and deals are in the works to be announced this year . For 2017 , Techstars expects to once again find the top retail tech startups from around the world and welcome them to Minneapolis for the summer to their beautiful working space located , literally , within Target HQ . Have a disruptive retail technology startup ?   Techstars will be visiting New York City , Cincinnati , Toronto , Waterloo , Seattle , Portland , Miami , Austin , Washington DC , Boulder / Denver , San Francisco and Los Angeles to discuss our program . Simply send an email here to coordinate . All in all , it was an incredibly successful first program and we are already looking forward to the next ! Apply today !   Photo : Flickr / Mike Mozart   This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .