Life science startups in the North of England take note -- the deadline is fast - approaching to take advantage of a PS500,000 accelerator fund that could transform their businesses . Startups only have until 31 January 2017 to apply to the North of England Life Science Accelerator ( NELSA ) . Set - up by a group including science park operator Manchester Science Partnerships , bioscience incubation centre BioCity , investment firms Catapult Ventures and Alderley Park Ventures ( APV ) , university collaboration N8 Research Partnership and the Northern Health Science Alliance ( NHSA ) , the accelerator will be anchored at Alderley Park 's BioHub . NELSA will aim to support young life science businesses across the north by providing seed funding for up to 10 early - stage commercialisation projects for a maximum of 12 months . The funding will enable businesses to carry out proof - of - concept research and eligible firms will also be offered business support such as workshops , coaching and access to mentors . Further , companies will be given access to the facilities and equipment at the internationally - renowned Alderley Park site . Competition for the accelerator funds is bound to be fierce and to be eligible , startups must work in the fields of life sciences and healthcare , covering areas such as diagnostics , therapeutics , devices and digital . All accelerator applications must be submitted by 31 January 2017 . Helen Philippou , a University of Leeds professor of translational medicine , recommended the program . She said , " I completed the BioHub Accelerator programme in Spring 2016 . Through the customer discovery process and access to amazing support from members of the Expert Network , my understanding of the clinical potential of my product was transformed . " The programme provided an invaluable introduction to the commercial environment and the drug development process . I whole heartily recommend it . " Ned Wakeman , the director of BioCity , which manages Alderley Park 's BioHub , added , " BioCity 's programmes have already proven highly successful in supporting the creation and growth of successful life science companies . " Joining forces with great innovation originating from within N8 Research Partnership , combined with clinical access and validation from within NHSA and funding , will help promising life sciences businesses bring great ideas to commercial reality . " Alderley Park is the logical base for the accelerator . The applications we 've received so far have been of extremely high quality but we want to see more , so I 'd urge all life sciences start - ups to take advantage of a fund which could propel their business to the next stage . "   