After NASA 's discovery of seven Earth - size planets orbiting around a single star , we 've all been reinvigorated with extra terrestrial excitement . One of these planets might have life on it , or at the very least be suitable for life , and that 's truly a crazy next step as we make sense of the universe around us . It comes at a good time , because NASA has announced their iTech Cycle 2 , a challenge to innovators of any stripe to come up with a solution or an idea that NASA can use to further their quest in space exploration . The initiative is open to small and large businesses , universities , non - profits , U.S. Government organizations and individual inventors . All they have to do is submit is a five - page white paper with their eureka moment written down .   The iTech Cycle 2 is focusing on five key areas : Autonomy , Big Data -- Data Mining and Machine Learning , Medical Systems and Operations , Radiation Protection and Mitigation , and X - Factor Innovations -- any solution out of the box that NASA had n't taken into account . The submissions will be reviewed by a panel of experts and whittled down to ten finalists based on relevance to the proposed topics and potential impact on them . The finalists will then present their ideas to NASA 's chief technologists , space industry leaders and potential investors at the 2017 NASA iTech Forum taking place at NASA 's Langley Research Center July 10 - 14 . The finalists of last year 's initiative were Aequor , Liberty Biosecurity , and InnaMed . InnaMed was actually discovered by NASA at the Tech . Co Startup of the Year competition . The iTech Cycle 2 will be open for submissions from February 23 to April 7 to U.S. citizens and permanent residents . NASA will not claim any intellectual property rights for a submitted idea . Let 's all give a cheer for these groundbreaking innovators . After all , it 's one of the only things for which we can come together as a planet . Read more about space travel here on Tech . Co