As part of our weekly spotlight series , we 'll be shouting out the most notable startups of the week . There is so much innovation going on that we want to spread the word and keep readers involved . From tech - driven baby food to wristbands that understand your emotional well - being , there is such a diversity of ideas in tech startups , so let 's take full advantage of it . Little Spoon is a tech - driven baby food company offering the most nutritious and well - sourced food on the market . Co - founded by female entrepreneurs Michelle Muller and Lisa Barnett , Little Spoon sought to give parents who care about farm - to - table a viable solution to their problem of what to feed their kids . Barnett was recognized as a Forbed 30 Under 30 VC this year and spent time as a Partner at Sherpa Foundry and as an investor at VC firms Maveron and Dorm Room Fund . Muller has specialized knowledge in the baby food market , also founding Petit Organics , a local fresh baby food delivery service in the United States . Levitating X is a collection of gravity defying decor including modern dining pieces , elegant works of art and vases , and leather pillows to showcase high - class timepieces and jewelry .    The objects levitate and can rotate using special electromagnetic technology . Travis the Translator is a revolutionary gadget that allows you to speak to almost anyone in the world and be able to understand them , despite a language barrier . Travis breaks these boundaries by translating on the spot in over 80 languages . Travis also gets better with time , learning how you speak and adapting . Feel is a high - tech wristband that measures bio - signals and gives users an analysis their emotional well - being . And gives them recommendations as to how to improve it . The sensors on the wristband measure electrodermal activity , blood volume pulse and skin temperature , and Feel 's special algorithms takes that information and makes sense of it altogether . Cellcontrol is a technology focused on stopping distracted drivers from using their phone while driving on the road . The app will notice when you are in the car and driving and will prevent you from being able to access your phone to take selfies , play games , or text your friends . It can be used in business situations with employees who are on the road as well . Read more about burgeoning startups here on Tech . Co