The Geeks on a Plane ( GOAP ) dinner hosted by Wesgro and Silicon Cape provided many insights into the investment landscape in SA and Africa . The dinner also consisted of a panel discussion with Zoona 's CFO , Keith Davis and investors Monica Brand Engel of Quona Capital and co - founder and CEO of Rippleworks , Dough Galen . Speaking at the dinner , was co - founder of Silicon Cape and 4Di Capital , Justin Stanford who spoke on his experience in Silicon Valley and his reason for starting Silicon Cape . He explained to the GOAP cohort and other attendees that his main takeaway from his time in the Valley was the value culture that surrounded it . " For me , the most useful takeaway I had of value culture was the collaboration , the pay - it - forward approach . " He compared that experience to what he experienced here in SA upon his return from Silicon Valley . " Here it 's like everyone keeps their cards close to their chest , no one talks about what they 're doing ... it was like a new secret turf and I wanted to kind of break that open . " Read more : Geeks on a Plane : A night out in Cape Town Years after Silicon Cape was founded , it was inevitable that the SME ecosystem would evolve and the investment space along with it . According to a report compiled by Wesgro , the 2015 World Investment Report by the United Nations Conference on Trade And Development ( UNCTAD ) found that SA was , " The largest African destination for inward Foreign Direct Investment ( FDI ) . " This could be attributed to the country 's location , according to Stanford . " Where we sit in SA is a great bridge to look in those markets in Africa while still having a western grounding . So we have a Western style of business , culture , infrastructure etc , " he said . Not only is our location ideal according to Stanford , but our nation currently sits on a growth curve that 's going to kick in soon . This trend could possibly be because of the growing interest in startups by many South Africans , mentioned Stanford . " There 's this general trend towards ' startups are cool now ' , it seems like everybody is talking about a startup or somebody wants to invest in your startup , and they can convince someone to invest because they 've heard of this ' startup thing ' . " But our location and growing interest in startups are n't the only things that make our country successful in the SME industry . " We 're capable of competing in certain verticals globally , " said Stanford , who further supported his point by mentioning that we have the ability to straddle both first - world and developing - world problems . Our fintech solutions can be applied in both first - world nations and developing ones . Once Stanford concluded dishing out some of his insights , the Zoona panel discussion commenced with Stanford interviewing Zoona 's investors and Zoona 's CFO . His first question was directed at Engel of Quona Capital about why they chose to invest so soon in a tertiary country . " The answer to the question is very similar to the theme of 500 ( Startups ) which is ' we were in the market ' . " She also went on to mention that Zoona made it incredibly easy to accommodate Quona and meet the team halfway as much as they could . Stanford pivoted the discussion toward SA exchange controls and how they affect foreign investors . Read more : 12 edtech startups teaching South Africans [ Digital All Stars ] " It is a significant barrier , " said Zoona CFO , Keith Davies . " There are ways you can go about it that 'll protect you as a foreign investor bringing your money in , you can get it endorsed by the Reserve Bank which will allow you to take it out , " he mentioned . Davies elaborated on his previous answer saying that the rules and regulations are becoming a bit more relaxed especially in regards to the tech sector . " We were on a panel with the Reserve Bank and highlighted the problems and how this is really damaging the ecosystem and they did listen . They have eased up on a few things , " Davies mentions . According to Davies , the biggest issue SA faces in terms of receiving foreign investment and increasing trust between foreign investors and those receiving investments is time . If you lead with enough time and provide the Reserve Bank with the necessary information sooner , you 're able to get through processes much quicker . CEO of Ripple Works , Doug Galen also elaborated on the state of SA 's entrepreneurial space , focusing on the Mother City in particular . " Cape Town is Silicon Valley all over again and I 'm excited to be here to experience that , the next 10 years here are going to be fantastic . " When asked about how to get more investors to invest their time and money in SA , Galen replied , " You 're doing nothing wrong , we just need to get the word out , we just need to find more opportunities for every project that we launch . "