Coworking spaces are a great place to build one 's business , develop relationships and expand an ecosystem . On Tuesday , bill LD 285 ( Bill ) , " An Act To Provide Funding for the Maine Coworking Development Fund " passed the House last week in a party - line vote of 77 to 66 . The Bill would provide a one - time infusion of $ 300,000 into the Maine Coworking Development Fund , which the Legislature created in 2015 to provide $ 100,000 a year to help develop coworking spaces around the state . " Co - working spaces are critical pillars in our 21st Century economy , " Rep. Fecteau told Maine Startups Insider after the Senate vote . " They attract young people , entrepreneurs , and Maine 's roughly 15,000 remote workers . Given our tourism economy , co - working spaces could very well mean our visitors spend an extra week stay in Bethel , Millinocket , or Portland . " Democrats supported the Bill and Republicans opposed . At the time , Rep. Ryan Fecteau ( D - Biddeford ) , the Bill 's sponsor , was not hopeful that his bill would be able to pass the Senate , which is controlled by the Republicans , if it suffered another party - line vote . However , the Senate on Tuesday voted 22 - 13 in favor the Bill , with five Republicans crossing the aisle to support the bill : Asked in an email why he joined the Democrats in voting for the Bill , Sen. Saviello was succinct . " The Bill supports small business startups , " Saviello replied . Fecteau said he was thankful the Bill enjoyed bipartisan support in the Senate . The bill now goes to the appropriations table , where all bills that include a fiscal note are sent after being passed by the Legislature . Lawmakers on the Appropriations Committee are then tasked with finding ways to fund all the bills that have an attached cost . If they find a way to fund the Bill , it moves forward to final enactment . If lawmakers on the Appropriations Committee ca n't find a way to fund the Bill , then it dies on the table . The Maine Coworking Development Fund distributed its first $ 100,000 in February . The recipients were Fork Food Lab in Portland , which received $ 25,000 ; Open Bench Project in Portland , which received $ 12,500 ; Our Katahdin Properties in Millinocket , which received $ 25,000 ; Think Tank in Portland , which received $ 25,000 ; and The Gem in Bethel , which received $ 12,500 . Lead photo of Think Tank in Maine from Maine Insider Read more about startups in Maine here at Tech . Co This article is courtesy of Maine Startups Insider , created by Whit Richardson , a journalist who 's covered Maine 's business community for the past decade . Visit Maine Startups Insider to read more about Maine 's startup community and subscribe to the weekly newsletter .