No matter how shiny it is , if your mobile app does n't start up in five seconds , you 'll start to churn players . Join this VB Live event for a deep dive into best practices , including balancing rich content and speed , optimizing load time , and more . Do n't miss out ! Register here for free . A responsive mobile website -- that 's do or die . But an app is some next - level action . You get your hands on all the features a smartphone can deliver -- geo - awareness , more sophisticated touchscreen applications , the camera , the gyroscope , and more -- and you 're delivering a precisely customized , personalized experience . And yet . When something hitches on your mobile site and is n't loading , your user might blame their wireless connection or their cell signal . But when your app is n't up to speed , your customer is going to lay the blame right where it belongs . Mobile app success is inextricably tied to performance , and there 's no cutting the cord . Consumers expect to get exactly what they want , exactly when they want it . A slow - loading app hurts your brand image . It gets your app deleted . It directly impacts your ratings . And sales and revenue will follow your user out the door . How slow is too slow ? Increasingly , even just fractions of a second too slow turns customers off . One mobile app user survey found that 80 percent of app users retry a slow - loading app only three times or less . Thirty - six percent said that an app with performance issues dropped their opinion of that company like a rock . But how do you consistently deliver that rapid - fire response to users when they tap on your icon ? And when an issue pops up , how do you fix it before it affects and potentially alienates whole swaths of your audience ? It 's a tough balancing act between delivering rich content and letting players enjoy the your content without a painful loading screen . In our latest VB Live event , Stewart Rogers , director of marketing technology at VentureBeat , will   take a deep dive into the best practices for reducing load times across both the mobile web and apps . He 'll look at screen load micro - data , how slow load times are killing publishers in the mobile arena , and more . Do n't miss out ! Register here for free . In this VB Live event , you 'll : Speakers : More speakers to be announced soon . This VB Live event is sponsored by Akamai .