Over 22 automakers and 34 hardware or software companies are hard at work developing self - driving cars , according to a recent tech report . It 's no secret that the industry is rapidly developing , and it ca n't come soon enough for those concerned about safety on the road : According to the US government 's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , 94 percent of road accidents in the United States in 2015 were caused by human error . At CES this year , Valeo has pulled the curtain on a variety of their own self - driving advancements , each designed with one main goal in mind : to rewrite the rule book on autonomous cars . Here 's a look at their latest innovations , complete with photos . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ The Valeo eCruise4U , the first automated car that can drive in electric mode at low speeds , such as in urban areas . That 's a quote straight from Jean - Francois Tarabbia , Group Senior Vice President R&D and Product Marketing , at the unveiling of the Valeo eCruise4U , the Valeo XtraVue and the Valeo 360AEB Nearshield . Valeo is offering front cameras , radars and laser scanners to ensure driver safety -- these are the essential sensors that Tarabbia was talking about . " Laser scanners are crucial for autonomous driving , " he added . One in every three vehicles worldwide is equipped with a Valeo electric system , which reduces energy consumption and CO2 emissions . It 's a electrification system designed to be suitable for all vehicles , even ones without an electric powertrain . Within the car , the Valeo Cockpit is a futuristic type of cockpit reminiscent of something out of TRON . It includes everything from interior cabin fragrance , to lighting , to climate .   The cockpit functions according to three distinct phases of the driving experience : The " task of driving , " when the driver is in full control ; the " experience of traveling , " when the semi - automated vehicle is driving itself ; and the " back to drive " when the driver takes back control of the vehicle . During the " task of driving " phase , the cabin environment supports driving - assistance features to enhance safety . Lights projected against the windshield can elegantly point out hazards on the road . If driver fatigue is anticipated , the system releases an energizing fragrance to encourage concentration . An ionizer purifies and freshens the air in the cabin .   Making the car 's interface even more futuristic , the lights can respond to how fast the car is moving , Valeo explains : " The interior lighting can also significantly enhance driving pleasure , with scrolling lights amplifying the sensation of acceleration and deceleration . " The Valeo eCruise4U comes with features like the 360AEB Nearshield : an " innovative sensor and camera technology system that provides the automatic braking system a 360-degree view for better passenger , pedestrian and vehicle protection . "    The Valeo XtraVue provides a connected camera and laser system that eliminates visual obstacles and offers an enhanced view of the road , allowing drivers to see " through " obstacles in front of them . It 's designed to cut down on visual debris that could impact your ability to see the road . Tarabbia explained at the event : " You are always safe , what we do not see are small objects and small moving objects . " Also , the Valeo C - Stream replaces the rearview mirror with a projection image and uses cameras to " map out the vehicle 's cabin to automatically prompt system adjustments . " Self - driving , automated laser system , purple interior lighting -- the future might not have flying cars , but the Valeo cars it does have manage to check off a half dozen more elements on the " future - y " wishlist . Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded .