Argo AI , a Pittsburgh startup , has sold a majority share of their company to Ford Motor Co. which has agreed to invest $ 1 billion over a five year schedule but will immediately become the majority shareholder . Both companies declined to disclose further details . Argo AI plans to fully support Ford but eventually license its software and sensor suite to other companies . This unusual arrangement is part of the deal agreement where Argo AI will become a subsidiary of Ford , and Ford will be the majority shareholder of Argo AI , but the company will operate independently and have its own board of directors . Argo AI 's status as a quasi independent company would let it attract employees with salaries comparable to hot startups , as well as offer stock options . " Let 's face it , there 's a war for talent these days . Argo [ being able ] to offer equity participation , we think it 's pretty unique . " " Our view [ is that ] , in the future , there will be a number of players that will have systems , " Ford CEO Mark Fields told Recode in an interview . " There wo n't be just one winner . But at the same time we can offer that to other companies where it does n't compromise our competitive advantages . We think that 's a great opportunity to get even more scale and create some value for the companies . " Bryan Salesky , previously with Google 's self - driving team and Peter Rander , previously with Uber 's , will head up the new company . Argo AI plans to develop a software platform backbone for Ford 's fully autonomous vehicle and are planning on making that platform a working reality by 2021 . They are working with the City of Pittsburgh to find and establish a work facility , and planning to find office space in the Pittsburgh area and hiring up to 200 engineers and CS professionals .   " We want to take a straight - line path to market as much as we possibly can , " Salesky said . Until this transaction , Ford 's investments in future transportation technology have been relatively modest , eg , $ 75 million to buy a minority stake in Velodyne , a manufacturer of laser - based LiDAR sensing systems , and $ 6.6 million in Civil Maps , a Berkeley , CA startup working on AI - powered mapping for self - driving cars . " The next decade will be defined by the automation of the automobile , and autonomous vehicles will have as significant an impact on society as Ford 's moving assembly line did 100 years ago , " Ford President and CEO Mark Fields said in a statement . " As Ford expands to be an auto and a mobility company , we believe that investing in Argo AI will create significant value for our shareholders by strengthening Ford 's leadership in bringing self - driving vehicles to market in the near term and by creating technology that could be licensed to others in the future . " < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >