A scientist shapes burger patties at the Impossible Foods headquarters in Redwood City , California . Melia Robinson The world 's population is expected to top nine billion people by 2050 -- a figure that has some worried there wo n't be enough resources on the planet to support animal agriculture at that scale . While Silicon Valley startups like Hampton Creek and Impossible Foods chip away at creating meat - free proteins that could someday feed the masses , an unlikely group of investors has joined forces to bring food industry giants on board . Seventy - one investors worth a combined $ 1.9 trillion are working together to put pressure on the world 's largest food companies to " future - proof " their supply chains by bringing more meat alternatives to market . Founded in 2015 , the FAIRR ( Farm Animal Investment Risk and Return ) initiative aims to make the food supply chain more sustainable by promoting plant - based foods , while also helping investors cash in on a lucrative new business . The substitute meat market is expected to climb 8.4% annually over the next three years , reaching $ 5.2 billion globally by 2020 , according to Allied Market Research . Jeremy Coller , a titan of the private equity industry and founder of FAIRR , tells Business Insider that because members of the coalition make up a large percentage of investors in these grocery chains and food manufacturers , they essentially have the power to say , " We own you . " The investors can then steer food companies towards more sustainable supply chains . FAIRR has produced extensive briefings on the animal agriculture industry , in the hopes of educating shareholders at food giants like McDonald 's , Domino 's , and Yum ! Brands on the environmental and financial gains of diversifying their supply chains . Animal agriculture takes up about a third of the world 's land , and is responsible for 15% of greenhouse gas emissions . AP In 2016 , the group fired off a letter to 16 multinational food companies , asking that they " explore and report back on " efforts to scale back their reliance on animal products . In a copy of the letter provided to Business Insider , FAIRR writes that large retailers have an important role to play in making meat - free alternatives available and affordable for consumers . " We warmly welcome the fact that Tesco [ a European supermarket chain , named in the copy given to Business Insider ] offers a wide range of plant - based and lower - meat options to consumers ; however , we believe there is room for further progress to be made , " the letter said . It goes on to make recommendations on how the company can improve , including giving non - animal protein products preferential placement in grocery stores ( like in the meat aisle , as opposed to the vegetarian foods section ) and making the packaging more attractive . The letter also encourages companies to invest in " product reformulation , " a food and beverage manufacturing term that means swapping some ingredients for better ones , which in this case , means ingredients not sourced from animals . It also suggests spending on consumer education to " raise awareness of the environmental and health benefits of more sustainable diets . " Impossible Foods was founded on the idea that there 's a better way to satisfy people who enjoy meat . Melia Robinson / Business Insider FAIRR targets food companies including Kraft Heinz , Nestle , Unilever , Walmart , and General Mills . As the coalition grows , so will the number of food companies the group goes after . Coller , who has been a vegetarian since he was 12 , is on a mission to wipe out factory farming . ( These large industrial operations raise over 99% of farm animals in the US . ) He 's invested in several plant - based protein startups , including Impossible Foods , Hampton Creek , Clara Foods , and Beyond Meat , which sells burger patties made from pulverized beets in select Whole Foods . However , Coller avoids talking about animal welfare when he 's around investors involved in FAIRR , because he says most are more concerned with the bottom line . With FAIRR , he appeals to investors who look at the meat alternatives market and see an opportunity to pioneer a new multibillion - dollar industry . " FAIRR is totally about materiality , not morality , " Coller says .