Nigerian entrepreneur Dayo Elegbe was feeling good . He 'd worked with big names in the UK and his latest idea to give away a car on a Nigerian game show looked like a money spinner . Little did he know that he was one move away from losing thousands of dollars . " I could n't sleep for three years . I had crazy insomnia , " says Elegbe , recalling his biggest failure in business , at a Fuckup Nights event held at the Canterbury Club in Cape Town last night . The monthly event , in which entrepreneurs detail their biggest failures , was hosted by co - working space Cape Town Office . Elegbe , founder of mobile digital marketing agency Sponge Africa , thought he knew it all , after nearly 15 years working in the advertising industry in the UK . Fresh in from the UK , he hit on an idea to run a television show using audience polls . He approached the concessionaire of the country 's state lottery with the idea of getting funding for the project , while the concessionaire could use the show to run their own live lottery . " I was so chummy with the chairman at the time , who is a billionaire , that he used to call me up and just say ' how are things going ? ' , " said Elegbe . The idea was to run an SMS poll to give way a Toyota Corolla every week . After a successful initial test , the poll went live . " So we said , ' you know what , we 're going to go out and we 're going to launch this campaign ' , full blown . We 'd bought all the cars , paid the expense of licenses and done everything . And I was so confident that I felt nothing could go wrong . Until it did ... " On the first day of the campaign he called one of the developers , who told him 100 000 people had already taken part . " And at this point I was counting the money already , so I was like take a scene from Hangover 3 . I was out with my mates , we were popping bottles , we were like ' I am going to make so much money ' it 's quite ridiculous . " The next morning after a long night of partying , he got back to the office . " I get back into the office and he ( the developer ) said he made a mistake ... he said actually it 's not 100 000 , it 's less than a thousand . At this point I had been on the phone to the chairman saying ' we 're fucking hammering it ' , and he 'd transferred all the money to the game show like that , straight away . " He began wondering what could have gone wrong . " It was simple . In my pride I just did n't do enough research . " MTN had been giving away a house . " So my promotion went head to head with someone giving away a house . " He then held an emergency meeting with the chairman where he explained the problem . " I really should 've said ' just kill me now ' , but instead I said we 'll turn this around and we will make your money back . " The poll began picking up , from under 1000 respondents a day , it climbed to under 4000 . " And then the government decides to ban all lotteries . It was like a film ... and then we literally had to stop . " Elegbe says for three years it was " like living a nightmare " as he tried to pay back the debt he had accumulated . " It dented my confidence for a long time . " The experience he says taught him an important lesson of restraint and humility . " I had close to 15 years of digital experience , I 've run these campaigns . One of the first mobile campaigns in the UK . And yet I did n't know shit , when the biggest operator on the freaking African continent ( MTN ) decides to come up against you . " Failure however is ever present in business , he says . " You do n't stop fucking up , you just get better at spotting things , " he adds . But he said things are now turning around . " About two months ago the chairman calls . At this point we 'd gone quite far in developing the concept of a TV show . He calls me up and says ' I hear you 're doing quite well with the TV show . When am I going to see the pilot so I can flight it ? " Featured image : Dayo Elegbe , founder Sponge Africa ( David Peter Harris ) Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in Startups