Thinking back about how science , technology , engineering and mathematics ( STEM ) was taught in the late 20th century brings back memories of tattered cubic building blocks and , if you were lucky , plastic magnetic rods .    For the current generation of kids who receive tablets for their first birthday and an Apple watch the next , however , these aged tools hold decreasing power in getting them actively excited and engaged with STEM . To modernise STEM teaching , Adelaide startup Makers Empire has developed an app that allows kids to create 3D designs which can later be printed . To help teachers educate kids about STEM and other subjects using the app , the startup has also developed a guided education program and curriculum package . The curriculum and app apply to students from grades kindergarten all the way up to year eight , although the interactive functionalities are entertaining for all ages - something I can vouch for , having played with the app . Cofounder Jon Soong , however , explained that the app was originally intended only for young children and came without any direct teaching material for STEM , as partnering founder Roland Peddie begun developing Makers Empire as a helpful tool for his daughter to enjoy . " My wife 's a teacher and she said I should take it into a school , so we took it into a classroom to test . The students loved it and the teachers were really interested in how it could be used in their classroom to educate the kids , " said Soong . " Everything we read said 3D printing would become really important for STEM education in schools , and the more time we spent there the more we saw that there was a really big gap between where the hardware and software was compared to where the classroom education was . " As a way to facilitate the transition for teachers from traditional chalk - and - paper STEM teaching methods to using technology , the startup began developing an educational program . " Particularly for primary school teachers , we found they needed a bit of help getting the stage of focus on STEM . They do n't have the time to focus on just one or two subjects like a high school teacher , so we made it really easy for them by giving them a curriculum , " said Soong . Makers Empire 's mindset , according to Soong , was that if kids can be exposed to exciting , hands - on STEM learning early on , they will be at a big advantage when they progress into secondary schooling and also become more likely to choose STEM subjects as a result .   Soong said their aim to develop a curriculum fell in line with the recent push schools and government organisations were exhibiting to improve STEM education and thus presented a rich opportunity , as schools look towards robotics , coding and 3D printing as key learning tools . For $ 25 a month , a teacher is able to access an online web portal featuring all the resources they 'll need to begin using the app to educate their students .   This " teacher 's dashboard " also features an analytics section where teachers can review all their students ' designs , in addition to a tool that allows them to download 3D models for printing . " They download STL files , which can be used to print from any printers , which they can connect to wirelessly or with an SD card , " explained Soong . For schools that do n't have a 3D printer on - hand , Makers Empire offers packages which contain either a small or large printer , sourced from an external manufacturer .   Each student is able to download the app for free and create their own unique account , which the teacher can tie into their dashboard .   Once logged in , students are presented with a virtual workspace where they can they begin building using a set of tools . There 's a shape or blocking - type module that allows users to build objects brick - by - brick , as well as a character design tool that allows students to create , well , characters . Shapes can be added , reshuffled and moved using a simple drag and drop or touch motion to build an object . To allow students room for extra creativity , there 's also a free - drawing mode where users can create their own shapes to add . Once a drawing is complete , teachers are able to choose whether or not the design is " public or private " . Going public means classmates are able to vote on each others ' model , with the chance that a model will go ' viral ' and be featured on the Makers Empire website . " We have an algorithm in place that works similar to Reddit , where designs can be upvoted to the front page of our website and featured in the highscores section . This encourages students to work hard and be engaged through competition , " said Soong . Currently , the total number of designs is sitting at over 574,000 , a number attributed to the startup securing a number of client schools across Australia and internationally .   Beginning with Adelaide , Soong said Makers Empire spread to Sydney and Melbourne before eventually heading to parts of Asia and the US to serve 40 different schools .    To expand its offering to different schools and also host special workshops , the startup has formed partnerships with and worked beside companies including Microsoft , Afinia 3D , WestED , and Sphero . In order to fuel international growth and continue to expand domestically , Soong said the organisation is looking towards partnering with other key organisations , with talks underway .   Although the business has raised $ 800,000 to date , Soong said the team may looked for additional funding to be able to gain a strong footing overseas . " We want to get to as many schools and students as we can . We would like to get larger rollouts to bigger educational organisations , whether that be huge districts in Australia or the US , " he said .