California has become a magnet for aspiring entrepreneurs and startup aficionados . But when you think California startups , you might think of Silicon Valley , the Bay Area , or even Silicon Beach . But some of the best startups and entrepreneurs might be hiding in plain sight . San Diego is one of those places . It 's " California 's best kept secret , " according to Will Smelko , CEO of Ora Organic . That 's why we took a look at San Diego 's startup community to find out how the lesser - known destination for entrepreneurship operates and what startup founders there think of it . Turns out , it 's a pretty awesome place for startups . Well , that 's if you 're ready for the San Diego experience . If you think the money meetings are happening in boardrooms and coffee shops , think again , as a margarita might be in your future . " If you 're raising money , be prepared for Mexican food , " says Doug Hecht , founder of Lymber . " Whether I 'm pitching or being pitched , it seems 70 percent of the meetings take place in a Mexican restaurant . " It 's not just the food that attracts investors to the city , San Diego has proven itself as a fertile environment for startup success and there are dozens of entrepreneurs to prove it . From the unique talent to the sense of camaraderie , San Diego offers a diverse range of opportunities and benefits that stand tall against its more popular counterparts in the state . Daniel Passov , President of Greek U , says there are so many resources and opportunities at your disposal : " It turns out that there are endless resources to help you build , grow , scale , and exit your business . And it 's right in front of you . You do n't need " open your eyes , " you actually need to open your mouth and start talking . Over the past few years , San Diego has become a community of startups . The sense of camaraderie within the entrepreneur community has given me unlimited resources to help in every aspect of my company . " Passov says that the entrepreneurial community is very selfless and want others to succeed : " Instead of withholding information or the " secret sauce " of their successes , entrepreneurs in the startup community in San Diego are willing to share it . This allows all companies in San Diego to grow together and put San Diego on the map to hire better talent and find more funding for new ideas . " Renne Catalano Gussman , Director of Business Development at San Diego Sport Innovators , says the entrepreneurs and executives who have found success want to share their knowledge with founders and mentor budding startups : " San Diego 's Sports and Active Lifestyle community and San Diego 's larger business and entrepreneurial community are incredibly collaborative and supportive of the growing businesses in San Diego . So many successful executives and entrepreneurs are willing to give their time and share their experiences to help up - and - coming startups hit the ground running . " Jurgen Schmerler , CEO of VerifiR , says there 's an extensive pool of talent that entrepreneurs can tap into : " Some of the best universities in the country are producing incredibly talented alumni in computer sciences and engineering here . Networks , like San Diego Sports Innovators , Connect , NDIA , and Biocom are ready to form bonds between tech startups , collaborators and customers in a wide variety of industries . It 's all there for us founders to take advantage of at no or minimal costs . " Jason Riggs , CEO of OSSIC , says the talent coming out of universities in and around San Diego are extraordinary : " OSSIC has been successful in hiring top talent from local universities and what we 've found interesting is that a lot of these individuals came here for school from tech centers like San Francisco and Los Angeles , but were looking to stay in San Diego and work for a startup after graduating . We are happy to help keep them here . " Matthew Veling , founder and COO of NumberBarn , says the employees really make each startup special : " When most entrepreneurs speak about their business they mention product , pricing , or innovation . However , in San Diego , the topic of startup culture always seems to end up back on one thing - employees . It may be the perfect weather or the robust opportunity in the city , but one thing is clear , San Diego attracts happy , top - tier talent - and the startups thrive because of it . " Jon Belmonte , co - founder and CEO of Spoutable , says they make for awesome teammates : " What I 've appreciated most about building companies and teams in San Diego is the quality of talent you 're able to attract , develop and retain here . Not only do folks bring very strong job - specific skills , i.e. sales , technical , marketing - in general , they have been some of the highest quality individuals with whom I 've worked . Great teammates , loyal and respectful towards each other ... on top of showing the drive , commitment and resourcefulness found in all successful companies . We could not be more excited to be creating Spoutable in San Diego . " Smelko says the combination of low cost , hip culture , and sense of community make the city something special : " The startup scene is so focussed on SF or LA that a lot of people are missing the cultural renaissance happening in San Diego . Seriously , there 's an organic eatery and a craft brewery on nearly every corner , a string of underground tiki bars and a theatre scene that holds outdoor Shakespeare plays ... You meet more fish in a bigger pond , but in a smaller pond like San Diego , the fish are a lot friendlier and more supportive . We 're able to attract more talented employees with a beautiful loft - style office right by the water in San Diego - something like that in Santa Monica would be 3 times what we 're paying . " Lisa Bicker , co - founder of PartyKroo , says the fast - paced startup culture vibes well with how accessible fellow entrepreneurs and resources are on - demand : " San Diego has an incredibly robust ecosystem for entrepreneurs . Our ability to quickly tap leading technology innovators who understand the lean and fast - paced culture of startups has given PartyKroo a nice head - start to building a successful on - demand business . I have also found the business community to be particularly welcoming with ready access to expertise , smart capital and a skilled workforce . If you have a quality business idea and plan , San Diego is the place to be . " Jenn Harris , CEO of Street Swings , says the relaxing atmosphere the city 's location provides adds a relaxing element to the stress of running a startup : " I love being an entrepreneur in San Diego because it 's so easy to have work - life balance . Even while pulling 20-hour days , you can still take an hour to meditate in the sunshine , take a long lunch to go surf , and refocus with a clear mind and fresh eyes . Startups in San Diego have a ' work hard , play hard ' attitude that is a great compliment to the entrepreneur lifestyle . This fits my startup especially well - being in the golf industry I can take prospects out to Torrey Pines and enjoy year - round perfect golf weather at a beautiful course . " Evan Harris , Co - Founder and CEO of SD Equity Partners , says it 's important to take a little time out of work to enjoy the beauty and culture of the city : " My one major takeaway throughout the process of starting SD Equity Partners is the importance of taking time away from work .. Ina startup , there are always things to work on , and if you let it , the work can consume your life . Leave work at work - get outside every once in a while and take in the amazing beauty and culture that San Diego has to offer . " Craig Cole , founder of Doppler , says San Diego gives you a wider space than most to fail gracefully and improve your business : " With [ San Diego ] not being labeled a main ' tech hub , ' this allowed us to freely make mistakes , beta test , even fail- without the fear of any skepticism within the industry . Instead it gave us the unique opportunity to work with a variety of people and places throughout the city , gaining perspective and constructive feedback upon each interaction . " Daniel Magy , founder of CITADEL , says San Diego is the best place for his business , but that funding can be difficult to attain at times : " If you are looking to get into security , defense or hardware there is not a better place than San Diego , there is incredible and affordable talent right here in our back yard . The only issue is that the funding landscape in San Diego beyond a seed round is very , very , dry . " Shaun Savage , founder and CEO of GoShare , says the only downside is that you might need to look elsewhere for funding : " San Diego is a great place to start a tech company . You have access to great talent coming out of the universities , a welcoming community of entrepreneurs and incubators like EvoNexus helping the startup ecosystem thrive . You may need to look outside of the city for funding but investors will give you the money if you have a good business . " One thing is clear : San Diego is becoming a juggernaut for entrepreneurship and innovation . Read more about the San Diego startup ecosystem here on Tech . Co Photo : Flickr / peasap