The future of computer science jobs are bright . But in anticipation of a talent shortage , preparing the next generation with the skills to advance technology will be critical to future innovation . One startup is taking a global approach to developing children 's skill sets for the future .   China - based edtech startup LeapLearner , an online educational platform , aims to prepare children for the future and help them embrace the power self - learning .   " A child 's ability to continuously learn new skills , create and adapt are the foundation for their future success , " the company states .   Their curriculum is designed for children ages 5 - 12 , integrates into a child 's existing education framework and the modules are built to correspond with the academic year . The program uses the feedback - loop and problem - solving nature of coding in order to develop self - learning abilities . The code kids will learn is the basis for communication with both humans and robots which will be a critical skill set for future innovation . Children will be able to engage through an interactive platform and even learn how to hack video games , which will help them understand a simple natural language of code before transitioning into Javascript . Ultimately , students are taught to build and share their own video games with others and gain confidence about creating new concepts . LeapLearner was developed by Ami Dror ( cofounder and CEO ) , Aaron Tian ( cofounder and CEO of LeapLearner China ) and the first Chinese - Israeli startup built from the ground up by Chinese and Israeli cofounders .   " Our vision is for LeapLearner to be the platform where kids learn to harness the power of code in order to be innovative and realize their dreams , " Tian said . The platform will only be launching in Shanghai ( users ages 5 - 12 ) , before being rolled out across greater China and Asia Pacific , and eventually expand to the Middle East and South American markets where there is a demand for innovative , high quality educational products . To date , the company has raised a seed round of $ 5 million from some globally renowned early - stage investors including John Wu , former CTO of Alibaba . Learn more about edtech startups here at Tech . Co This featured startup is part of our premium Spotlight Feature Series . Learn more about how your company or crowdfunding project can get noticed and reach thousands of readers around the country , including influencers , investors and more .