Innovega 's eMaccula system uses contact lenses to help wearers ' eyes focus on small screens mounted on the glasses lens . ( Innovega Photo )   The startup journey is often a sprint , a mad dash to raise capital and release products . But augmented reality startup Innovega is betting that slow and steady will win the race . The company generated a lot of buzz a few years ago around its augmented reality ( AR ) glasses and contact lens system eMacula -- previously called iOptik -- which has been in development since 2008 . But for the past three years , Innovega has been flying under the radar as it quietly raises capital and prepares for eMacula 's commercial launch . Innovega co - founder and CEO Steve Willey tells GeekWire that the startup just closed a funding round of about $ 3 million led by Chinese digital media giant Tencent , parent company of the popular social media platform WeChat . Former Tencent CTO Jeff Xiong also serves on Innovega 's board , and Willey said China will be an important market for eMacula . This is the first private funding the startup has sought , having previously received funds from DARPA , the National Science Foundation , and the National Institutes of Health . It brings Innovega 's total funding to about $ 10 million , Willey said . He also said eMacula has completed necessary clinical trials and is pending review by the FDA . Because the system involves a contact lens , it must be approved before the startup can begin commercializing it .   As Willey explains , the company has been playing the long game because it is pushing for an augmented reality system unlike any on the market . " The consumer 's got an extremely demanding specification , and we took that as something we needed to meet , " Willey said . In other words , the company asked : how can we develop an AR device with good optics that is also lightweight , comfortable , looks cool , and do n't run out of battery constantly ? Innovega 's answer was a tiny screen and an even smaller lens . Here 's how it works : a one - square - inch screen is attached to the inside of a pair of glasses , sitting about half an inch from the wearer 's face . At that distance , our eyes ca n't naturally focus on the screen . So Innovega developed a high - powered contact lens that adjusts the wearer 's vision so she can focus on objects extremely close to her face .   This high - powered lens also corrects vision like a normal contact lens and can be worn with or without AR glasses . The versatility of the system means it could also be used to view media projected directly onto the lenses of glasses , Willey said . He said the company is focusing on the platform 's hardware , and will work with other groups to link it to various media sources , such as smartphones . This means eMacula could be used in a variety of settings , including in the military . The startup actually began work on the system by winning a bid from DARPA , the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency . " We did work in the defense community because they had a very similar problem , " Willey said . " They said , ' we 've got these so - called War Fighters , and they 're wearing these Oakley - style field glasses . And we 've got media galore from satellites and cameras and drones , but how do we get it to the troops in the field ? ' " Although the startup has since parted ways with DARPA to pursue a commercial product , Willey said there was the possibility the military could use an adapted version of the eMacula system after it has been launched commercially . He also said the high - powered contact lenses could be used in a medical setting , to correct vision in certain patients . Innovega was founded in 2008 by Willey , optometrist Dr. Jerome Legerton , now the company 's Chief Clinical and Regulatory Officer , and Randall Sprague , who has since left the company . The startup 's headquarters are in Bellevue , Wash. , with two manufacturing facilities in California and about 10 employees spread between the two states .