I want you to travel back in time with me twenty years or so .   The Internet is young and still relatively unknown to most of us .   Only a small group of web enthusiasts understand how to navigate it -- let alone make a buck on it .   At this time , a handful of savvy prospectors have begun to take notice of the commercial potential behind this remarkable new technology .   Silently , they begin buying up domain names , also known as virtual real estate , that will soon dwarf the appreciation potential of any real estate investment in physical world .    In a few short years , their early investments will pay off in a way that few could have ever imagined , as businesses around the world scramble for a presence in the greatest marketplace the world has ever seen .   Fast - forward to a few years later and take a look at some of the eye - popping numbers that buyers have paid to acquire some top .com domains : In fact , over the past two decades over a billion dollars of premium domain name deals have been reported and documented - with potentially billions more in stealth , under - the - radar sales that have gone unreported .   If someone had told you , back in the mid - nineties , that a simple " domain name " could fetch these outrageous prices , you would probably not have believed it .   Yet as incredible as these prices seem to the average person , to a business looking to be found amidst the clutter and confusion of today 's Internet - a short , meaningful , memorable domain name is well worth the premium price tag . It has often been said that " domain names are the real estate of the Internet . " Just like physical real estate in the offline world , virtual real estate has a value that is directly related to variables like supply , demand and location .   After - all , a well - placed domain name can help businesses and brands to better connect and engage with consumers , garner coveted internet traffic -- and stand out from the competition . Until recently , .com was really the only game in town , and the scarcity of premium .com domains helped to justify the multi - million dollar price tags .   But the internet has come a long way in the last two decades - and thanks to a recent change in internet governance approved by ICANN ( the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ) - today there are over a thousand new dot anythings and dot everythings available for individuals , investors , businesses and brands to choose from .    In what has come to be known as the " not - com " revolution , over the past three years , close to 28 million domain names have been registered across 1200 " new " top - level domain extensions - including hobbies ( e.g. , .yoga , .baseball ) , professions ( e.g. , .law , .health ) , distinctions ( .guru , .ninja ) and cities ( paris , .melbourne , .nyc ) - among other things .    More new top - level domains mean more options for individuals , businesses and brands to choose from - and less perceived scarcity . While the premium values of " new " domains have yet to come close to the stratospheric prices of .com domains during their heyday , make no mistake about it -- there is value to be found if you know where to look . Unfortunately , you ca n't turn the clock back two decades to take advantage of the .com boom .   But the good news is that the internet is still just a baby .   If you pay close enough attention , there are still many opportunities to leverage today 's new domains to find and create value - and to build meaningful brands . For example , here are just a few sales that demonstrate the premium values buyers have placed on certain new top - level domains names in the past couple of years . Perched atop the most prime piece of physical real estate in the world , New York City is arguably the world 's most iconic city .   " The Big Apple . " " The Capital of the World . " " The Center of the Universe . " " The City that Never Sleeps . " Thanks in part to the strength and power of New York City 's brand , NYC is now well on the way toward creating one of the most valuable digital domains on the Internet .    As part of its commitment to take the lead in digital innovation , 3 years ago , the City of New York launched the .nyc ( pronounced dot - nyc ) top - level domain , creating an official web address exclusively for the use of the people , businesses and brands of New York City .   Competing with legacy domains like .com , .net and .org , the .nyc domain gives New Yorkers the ability to connect and transact business through a shared location , and to showcase their affiliation with NYC as an enviable component of their success .   In addition to serving as a powerful city branding and public diplomacy tool , the .nyc domain provides individuals and businesses a branded space for expression and development -- and a sense of community that unites New Yorkers as a force in the global internet . According to namestat.org , .nyc has become the largest domain extension of any city in the world - beating out other major global cities for the distinction , including .London , .Berlin , .Tokyo , and .Paris , to name just a few .   While most .nyc domain names sell for a retail price of + /-$25-$35 , domain buyers have demonstrated that certain .nyc domain names have more intrinsic value than others .   In a series of open and transparent domain auctions , here are some of the premium values that New Yorkers have placed on select .nyc domain names during the past few years . Domain names like these are considered premium for a variety of reasons , including factors like popularity in search , social trends , keyword value , brandability and category definition .   Premium domain names can help to drive consumer engagement , media attention , search engine traffic and sales - that 's why they are so valuable . Right now , some of the highest value premium domains available in the .nyc namespace are up for auction . The auction , celebrating " Tech in the City , " is showcasing 26 of the most meaningful , memorable tech category names like , apps.nyc , startup.nyc , gaming.nyc , UX.nyc and more .   The auction also features names like VC.nyc and Angel.nyc , for the benefit of the investors who have helped to fuel the City 's tech growth . The .nyc tech domain auction is taking place online from now through May 18th , 2017 .   You can get all the details at www.auctions.nyc .   As New York City 's digital landscape continues to evolve , the ones to benefit are those first to the game . If you want a chance to own a part of NYC digital history , be sure to check out the full list of premium domains below and get your bids in before May 18th at http://www.auctions.nyc . Bidding starts at just $ 500 to ensure that this opportunity is accessible to all residents , students , entrepreneurs , and businesses .    Just remember , .nyc is an exclusive benefit for New Yorkers - so only individuals and businesses in the five boroughs are eligible to participate . And hurry , or your chance to own one of these premium .nyc tech domains will be gone in a New York minute ! This article is brought to you by our partner Neustar , the domain registry that brings you .us , .co , .nyc , .biz , and top level domains .