When a car company issues a recall , it 's typically on dealerships to reach out to affected customers . But since vehicles can change hands , leaving records out of date , dealers are n't always able to provide drivers with this at times vital information . One company that addresses this issue is Recall Masters , founded by programmer Chris Miller . Recall Masters , which employs 20 people and even a lobbyist in Washington , D.C. , collects data from more than 50 different sources , then utilizes machine learning to analyze it . The startup can then determine if a vehicle qualifies for a recall and who its current owner is -- even if it has been resold multiple times -- by poring over billions of transactions , according to Miller . He dubs the process " digital forensics . "   " We then make it possible for dealerships to contact those vehicle owners and get them in to have their recall fixed , " Miller told Entrepreneur in an email . " The aim of everything we do is to protect automotive businesses and consumers and help [ original equipment manufacturers ] and dealers build lasting customer relationships . " You only have to consider the Takata airbag scandal to see the need for a solution such as Recall Masters . The Japanese company pleaded guilty on Feb. 27 to wire fraud charges after it was discovered that executives had attempted a cover - up of its defective airbags , which have been responsible for at least 16 deaths . Four car companies -- Ford , Honda , Nissan and Toyota -- were also recently sued over their alleged knowledge of Takata 's problematic airbags , which have shot out shrapnel at car interiors . The federal government " does not collect or keep data on the number and how dealerships deal with recalls , " the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration told Entrepreneur via email . According to Recall Masters data , however , 61 million vehicles were recalled in 2016 , setting a record for the most vehicles recalled within a single calendar year . The company brings in revenue by selling its software - as - a - service platform to dealerships , automakers and car rental companies . " Being a relatively new upstart in an established industry resistant to change , Recall Masters had to very slowly secure relationships and centralize data across every major automotive manufacturer , " Miller says , adding that the company was in " incubation " for six months . Most of Miller 's prior experience has been in building marketing automation software , including a stint at Criterion Networks . He 's worked with financial institutions such as HSBC and Washington Mutual as well as car companies such as Mercedes and BMW . He invested $ 500,000 of his own money to build Recall Masters . Now , he says , the company is looking to raise funding and receive a valuation of more than $ 40 million . Stephen J. Bronner is news director of Entrepreneur.com . He occasionally writes about technology , video games , food and fitness .