Adding another accelerator program to Australia 's growing slate is global organisation Techstars , which announced today the introduction of the Techstars Adelaide Accelerator Program , which will look to help startups develop and commercialise technologies applicable to the defence and security industries . Techstars program , which has graduated 900 startups since 2006 , has been designed to back startups dealing with big data , sensors , Internet of Things , and robotics .   Kicking off in July , participants will undertake a 12   week program exposing them to a network of mentors , investors and founders from the related industry , including corporate partners such as Rheinmetall , Thales , Austal , and DCNS .   These corporate partners will offer the participating businesses access to advanced technology and research , with the potential opportunity to develop and commercialise technologies related to the security and defence sector . David Cohen , cofounder of Techstars , said , " Defence research has driven some of the most transformative consumer innovation the world has seen , from the internet and GPS to superglue and digital photography . " Minister for Defence Industry Christopher Pyne added that the accelerator supports the Turnbull Government 's own initiatives to progress defence innovation in Australia .   " This is a welcome and encouraging step for new collaboration across [ the ] defence industry , which will be critical to meeting the challenges of the future , " said Pyne . " Initiatives such as these are very welcome and will support the defence market to mature advanced technologies to a level that are ready for Defence consideration . " The arrival of the program in Adelaide comes as the Government invests much of its Defence spending in Adelaide . A Centre for Defence Industry Capability ( CDIC ) in Adelaide and online Defence Innovation Hub were launched late last year . The CDIC identified Adelaide as a key location for global innovation and defence infrastructure , with over $ 100 billion worth of industry projects currently in the pipeline .   Discussing Techstars ' place in Adelaide , Cohen said the city " fits the bill perfectly " . He said , " Not only is it ranked by the Economist Intelligence Unit as the fifth most liveable city in the world , it has been recognised by the G20 for its coordinated support for entrepreneurship . It is a tech - forward city that is building sophisticated infrastructure for startups . Last year it became the first international ' GigCity ' , and Cisco 's only ' Lighthouse City ' for innovation in Australia . " Though to be based in Adelaide , the program will be open beyond Adelaide and APAC to global startups . The ten chosen startups will receive the accelerator 's standardised funding amount of $ 164,200 ( $ 120,000 USD ) in exchange for equity . The program will be led by an Australian - based managing director , with Techstars currently looking for candidates .   You can learn more about the program here .