With technology exploding and skill sets broadening , the remote work revolution is in full swing . Not only are millennial employees reveling in the flexibility of working from home , they 're also enjoying the chance to showcase their skills without moving to larger cities . And while setting up a home office can keep you motivated , coworking spaces are quickly becoming the new norm for remote employees . As a remote team ourselves , Tech . Co understands the importance of having a coworking space when it comes to getting work done . In that vein , we set up a few of our employees at WeWork Kinzie , one of their Chicago locations in the heart of downtown . As a result , our team has enjoyed a wide range of benefits that our respective living rooms could not have provided . What kind of benefits ? Take a look below and see for yourself : No matter how much time you spent setting up your home office , nothing compares to having a specific place for work projects . Whether you have a team space with multiple desks like us , or a single desk office for your remote working ways , having an actual office goes a long way in promoting productivity .   A coworking space is more than just a physical office to put your pens , pencils , and files . A coworking space is somewhere you can go to meet motivated individuals that love to work hard and network . Plus , it never hurts to have a work best friend .   If you work from home , you have to admit : it 's hard to get motivated . Whether you 're stuck in front of the TV or behind your home office desk , do n't you find yourself yearning for a dedicated space to actually get some work done ?   Sometimes , working in the office can get a bit cramped . Besides , who needs privacy when you 're surrounded by like - minded professionals that just want to get the job done ? Most coworking spaces having public areas for people that want to work while lounging on comfortable couches , plush chairs , and stylish ottomans .   Your mouth will start watering when you hear about the amenities found in most coworking spaces . From the basics , like water coolers and microwaves , to elegant additions , like beer taps and coffee machines , you 'll feel right at home when you need an afternoon snack break .   The words are typically only used on band posters and wedding invitations . But at WeWork and many other coworking spaces , you can find a litany of beer taps flowing with everything from IPAs and stouts to lagers and ciders . The pleasure of a cold beer is no longer limited to your living room at home . Now , rewarding a hard day 's work is only a few steps from your office .   This article is part of a WeWork content series . WeWork provides shared workspace , community , and services for entrepreneurs , freelancers , startups and small businesses . Read more about WeWork here .