We all want to believe that people are on the up and up when it comes to making a deal . However , sometimes going into a negotiation with a company or client turns out to be far from what you expected . We asked four entrepreneurs to share early warning signs of a bad business deal and how to avoid it . Take a look at their answers below and keep your wits about you during a negotiation : This is n't the case for every business , but I 've come across a few startups that attempt to offer a piece of the pie ' when they hit it big " or ' when they get funding ' in lieu of paying for that essential marketing or publicity launch campaign . These ' offers ' do n't fly with my business model . Everyone has ideas . Execution and taking those ideas to market is crucial to success . - Angela Delmedico of Elev8 Consulting Group Every company is different , but I have generally found that folks who rely on faulty business practices share a number of common traits . One of them is an over - reliance of concepts , like career advancement , or the insistence that they offer a great opportunity coupled with an unwillingness / inability to elaborate further . -Steven Buchwald of Buchwald & Associates We have traditionally been very careful regarding the clients we choose to work with . We carefully vet each client to ensure they are a good fit and we see strong , long - term SEO potential . Unfortunately , if your clients ca n't pay their bills , they may not be managing their business well , and you may be the next victim trying to collect on an unpaid balance . It 's important to not let your clients get behind on payment . - Chris Rodgers of Colorado SEO Pros Listen to your intuition . If it 's too good to be true and everything seems to be moving too fast , then it 's time to slow down . Plant your feet into something solid and recenter yourself and your view of the business . -Arry Yu of Gift Starter Learn more about negotiations for your business here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .