Aside from the idea itself , the most important detail contributing to small business success is the actual funding to get that idea off the ground . There is more than one way to achieve the initial funding you need for your startup , and each ones comes with a set of pros and cons . One of the biggest questions to ask , though , is this : Do I want outside funding or to bootstrap ( or raise the money as I go ) my small business ? There are a few questions you should ask yourself before you make this decision . Check them out below before you pull the funding trigger : Not needing to repay a small business loan is certainly a tempting proposition . A business that bootstraps essentially starts selling goods or services and then uses the proceeds to keep building the business . Another positive part of bootstrapping is that you maintain complete control of your business . Usually when larger investors are involved , they want a say in what happens with your startup . They want to see a return on their investment so they speak up . When you bootstrap , no one is looking over your shoulder or demanding you change the way you want to run things . If you 're a business that does n't need a lot of cash or inventory to get started , bootstrapping is a good fit for your startup . If you can fund your initial costs , even if it 's a stretch , then bootstrapping could be the best option . The good news for entrepreneurs is that the lending market is opening back up . People are much more confident in the economy than they were just a few years ago , which benefits people starting small businesses . Here are just a few of the outside funding sources you could seek : You can head to a bank and seek a small business loan that is levied against your personal assets . You could also find money by refinancing your home , or seeking a second mortgage . These are legitimate ways to fund a small business , but to make sure you are n't selling yourself short , you 'll need to have a strong plan to repay those loans as quickly as possible . If you plan to pay back the money you borrow relatively quickly ( within 6 months to a year ) , then a business credit card works just as well as a loan . You will pay interest on any balance that is n't paid within a period - but the terms differ based on the business credit card you choose . You may be able to find one that gives you a little more time to pay without interest , or a lower interest rate than a bank loan , so do your research . Technology has made small business ownership easier , particularly when it comes to funding . There are many sites that have popped up to meet the demand of everyday investors and small business owners for short - term projects . You can list your small business needs on a crowdfunding site and see if any investors are out there . However , there is typically a slight catch to crowdfunding : you must supply in return for the donations . Just keep that in mind as you develop your crowdfunding campaign . If you offer investors a reward for investing instead of equity , then find a low cost and time efficient reward so you do n't end up spending a large portion of the investment on making good on promises . Selling your product at cost to investors before going to market is a great way to reward them for investing . Business loans are a great means to get the initial capital needed to start your business . There are many options ranging from SBA loans to term loans that lenders offer . Platforms like Fundera aggregate many different small business lenders to review your business and offer financing options . Before going out for a business loan , make sure to browse the different loan products to find the type that fits your needs best .