  If you do n't succeed , try and try again . Unless you are a surgeon . But this is all about to change , using nothing but pixels and data .   SEE ALSO : This stem cell gun helps burn victims regrow their skin in just a few days Touch Surgery 's cofounders , Dr. Jean Nehme and Dr. Andre Chow , are young surgeons who taught themselves how to code . Now , they 're on a mission to transform medicine - by digitalizing it .    Practicing an acute trauma craniotomy Image :   GIF via touch surgery Touch Surgery , a UK - based medical training startup , has developed an immersive surgical simulator that replicates complex procedures , breaking them down in steps . It 's available in app form , allowing users to transform their fingertips into scalpels on the go . That way , surgery newbies can attempt complex procedures all they want , without risking actual lives . The next step is to deliver the immersive and freakishly realistic 3D animations in VR form . Practice makes perfect . Traditionally , young surgeons do n't really get any trial and error sessions before they step into the operating room . It 's kind of like learning to fly a plane without using the flight simulator . This is changing , thanks to apps like Touch Surgery . After visiting their enormous two - floor space , I attempted a simple hand surgery , step by step , in thin air , while wearing a HoloLens headset .   No patients were harmed in the writing of this article .   The simulation itself is pretty straight forward and your actions as a digital surgeon are limited . You can only strictly follow the steps outlined . So no impromptu incisions . You also ca n't see what happens if you do something wrong like puncturing a vein . ( So it 's nothing like the board game Operation . ) This makes the simulator a bit constrained and rigid in its virtual representations , but maybe that 's the point . Touch Surgery is supposed to prepare surgeons for the specific steps they need to take on the operating table . It 's about helping them improve their decision - making and making it as close to the real thing as possible .     Image :   GIF via Mashable The Touch Surgery office harnesses far more than strictly medical expertise . There are people coming from the visual effects industry ( more specifically , the world of Star Wars ) , mobile and gaming developers , and graphic designers . " We 're able to replicate 3D anatomy and 3D surgical process to a really high degree of fidelity . And we use that to put surgeons into the right mindset to make sure that they 're making decisions as realistically as possible , " Dr. Chow said .   A post shared by Touch Surgery ( @touchsurgery ) on Sep 1 , 2016 at 11:08am PDT They are now collaborating with universities and hospitals to fine - tune and expand the procedures that can be simulated . There are already over a hundred . Touch Surgery has also been picked up by John Hopkins University as part of the procedure evaluating novice surgeons .   The app itself has grown in popularity , with over a million users around the world . Interestingly , a significant number are actually patients . Dr. Chow said Touch Surgery has the added benefit of allowing patients to actually see what the procedure that they are undergoing would look like . That demystifies surgeries from the patient 's point of view , which tends to be entirely limited to just before being put to sleep and right after waking up .   The ultimate goal is going global , with the incredible spread of smartphone use across the world .   Precision is key . Image :   GIF VIA TOUCH SURGERY " There are around 7 billion people on the planet , but 5 billion people do n't have access to safe surgical services , " said Dr. Chow . " That 's why we created Touch Surgery - to be part of that story that helps scale surgery to really meet global demand . "   Essentially , what the simulator is intended to do is transform access to surgical training and achieve a sense of equality in surgical training around the world .   In other words , one day you wo n't need to find the best surgeon to perform a complex brain surgery or hand transplant , because surgical services , uniformly , will be able to provide care at a very high and risk - free standard .   " Ultimately , " Dr. Chow said , " we want to be at a stage within the next five to ten years , where we can be saying that what Touch Surgery does saves lives . "  