As in the previous years , we started 2017 with some research and the goal to create a list for each EU country which showcases some of the most promising startups that are worth following this year . Let 's start with Austria . The mountainous country is not only home to the awesome tech event Pioneers Festival , but also to a large number of successful startups . Also , the Austrian government is quite active in supporting entrepreneurs , as they passed a comprehensive startup program last year to make the country more startup friendly . Given the large amount of interesting startups from Austria , it 's been hard to narrow this list down , but we 've decided to go with just 7 promising Austrian startups out of different sectors . All of them entered the market within the last two years and each startup has something special to add to your business life or your personal web experience in 2017 . Byrd : The Vienna - based startup Byrd is a first mile shipping service which allows customers to ship items completely hassle free . They pick up the items , package them , and ship them with the best carrier for a small service fee . Founded in 2016 , Byrd offers a simple and effective logistic solution for millions of sellers , who are currently wasting resources on the shipping process . No more amateur packaging , post office queuing , and random carrier prices . In the summer of 2016 , Byrd secured EUR370 K in seed funding .   Intellyo is an omni - channel lead generation platform powered by machine learning . The Vienna- and Budapest - based startup analyzes optimal communication on the web and proprietary traffic platforms and then produces hyper targeted content to reach your target customers . Intellyo 's systems drive the consumer through a dynamically adaptive consumer journey while delivering genuine information value throughout the journey . The promising startup was founded in 2016 with the goal to help companies improve their content marketing efforts . TaskWunder is an online marketing outsourcing platform where freelancers work on tasks like landing page optimization , Facebook marketing setup , content creating and design . The Vienna - based startup was founded in 2015 . It uses checklists , videos and online courses provided by industry experts to make sure that customers get state - of - the art online marketing solutions that drive revenue . Freelancers are qualified by completing tests and by constant feedback and working according to KPIs . This results in standardized high quality results as well as effective " on - the - job training " . Currently only available in German , TaskWunder will relaunch the site in a few weeks and will then also be available in English . pwnwin : Founded in the end of 2015 and based in the little Austrian town Mondsee , pwnwin is a free - to - win eSports competition platform for the most popular games that benefits both players , publishers and developers . Most of pwnwin 's services are free for everybody , while the platform gives its players the chance to win cash and prizes everyday . In December of 2015 , pwnwin secured EUR330 K in seed funding . According to SimilarWeb , pwnwin already counts roughly 1 million visits per month . Ticksa : The Vienna - based startup Ticksa created a pioneering per - click marketplace for content . With Ticksa anyone can monetize their content ( video , music , blogs , photos ... ) anywhere . It easily lets you upload your content , set the price and promote it by inviting your social media contacts . Ticksa also enables white label installations of its SaaS e - commerce , digital eco - system and partner enhancement tools . The ambitious startup was founded in 2015 and seems to have raised no venture capital yet . PowUnity is a POWerful commUNITY of freeski and extreme sports enthusiasts who use the NeverLose detection and anti - theft system to enjoy the freedom of exploring untouched terrain . PowUnity also offers a bicycle mount so that the NeverLose device can be easily transferred from your winter sports gear at the end of the season to your bicycle . The three PowUnity founders are avid skiers and started the company because of their passion for skiing and sports in general . The Innsbruck - based IoT startup was founded in 2015 . Minebox : The Vienna - based hardware startup Minebox is building data storage , archiving and backup solutions using NAS computers , blockchain technology , peer to peer networks , public - key cryptography and open - source decentralized data storage systems . In short : The power of Dropbox and Blockchain bundled in a box . Minebox secured an undisclosed amount of seed funding in 2016 . By the way : If you 're a corporate or investor looking for exciting startups in a specific market for a potential investment or acquisition , check out our Startup Sourcing Service !