startup pitches . Company : Ranksense . Headquarters : Iselin , New Jersey . Founding Team : Hamlet Batista . Why we like it : Ten web pages later and the marketing officer is sick of applying Search Engine Optimisation techniques onto each page . Pass the job onto the newest intern , who really only stuck it through to make a good first impression .   E - commerce sites and large companies with numerous webpages on their site do n't have the time to optimise each webpage to boost it onto the first page of google . Yet ideally that 's exactly what they want , to market their service . Without eliminating the human empathy , large sites need tools to scale personal work across numerous pages and keep the marketer in control . This is exactly what Ranksense , an SEO automation platform for e - commerce sites , does . They are launching a machine - assisted SEO tool to help companies increase search rankings , scale and accelerate technical implementations , create compelling search snippets , conduct SEO experiments and measure SEO ROI . Sounds like they do a lot . Well translated into human time , it is . In machine time , not so much . Talking about time , using a machine to replace the human workload does n't mean that the marketer is now without a job . Instead , they have more time to focus on other tasks . Effective SEO comes down to Return on Investment -ROI . You would think that a human would be the only one able to assess what techniques are actually working . However , with the help of Ranksense , a business can gain insights and learn which optimisation strategies are actually working . A machine can analyse what words are matching up with the company 's preferred audience 's searches to see exactly where to place their brand .   The team at Ranksense says , " We know there 's a large number of companies trying to meet client expectations and increase online traffic . We 're not here to compete but to help out the industry with innovative machine technology . " If you 're still not convinced , here 's one little detail to tip you over the edge - according to Ranksense 's clients , traffic has grown 46 percent year over year and revenue increase 84 percent .   