Tousled CEO Priya Dandawate . ( Tousled Photo )   When Priya Dandawate was studying engineering at the University of Illinois , she moonlighted in local beauty parlors . She saw big inefficiencies in the salon industry that she thought the right technology could solve . The idea stayed with her through college and she could n't shake it in her years working as a developer for Expedia and a program manager at Microsoft . While still at Microsoft , she began working on Tousled , her idea to disrupt the salon industry with on - demand beauty and grooming services . " I realized that I would n't be satisfied until I left Microsoft and pursued it as a full - time endeavor , " she said . Shortly after leaving Microsoft , Dandawate met Melissa O'Neill Albert , a longtime marketing exec with over 20 years of experience developing brands . The two decided to take the entrepreneurial plunge together . " With her tremendous skills in marketing , PR , and business strategy , she is such a compliment to my skill set , " Dandawate said . " We have grown by leaps and bounds . " They officially launched Tousled in 2015 . Using the service , customers can request haircuts , manicures , massages , and other self - care services on - demand . Tousled suggests a licensed professional from the company 's network , who travels to the customer 's home , office , or other designated location . Tousled also does monthly pop - ups with companies in the Seattle region , like Microsoft and Facebook . We caught up with Dandawate for this Startup Spotlight , a regular GeekWire feature . Continue reading for her answers to our questionnaire . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " Tousled is a marketplace that connects clients with beauty , barbering and wellness professionals for services when and where they want them . " Inspiration hit us when : " Working as a software engineer at Microsoft , I kept thinking [ about ] applying technology to the outdated salon industry , where I spent many hours working while an engineering student . I kept thinking about the efficiencies and delight that technology could bring , especially given changing customer expectations . " VC , Angel or Bootstrap : " Bootstrap , because that is where you need to start , and now getting ready to close our Angel round . If you do n't put some skin in the game , we do n't think it is fair to ask anyone else to . " Our ' secret sauce ' is : " The chemistry of our team and the fact that the foundation of our product is social . Yes , we are a marketplace , but we are also a beauty , grooming and wellness community . Tousled has Instagram and Facebook integration and is rich with shared photos , videos , conversations and content , leading to deep engagement . " The smartest move we 've made so far : " Keeping our costs down while we test different strategies and product revs . " The biggest mistake we 've made so far : " We think of them as ' learning opportunities . ' Out of the gate , we assumed every tactic we used to get customers had to be ' scalable , ' but it is good to be scrappy when you are starting . You need to figure out your product - market fit so find your customers any way you can . " Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : " We 'll take Sheryl Sandberg . If you believe the adage , ' if you want something done , give it to a busy person ' then who better than a woman ? Sheryl keeps breaking ground with open , honest discussion of challenges women leaders face and responsibilities we juggle , advocating for strong women networks , particularly in tech . " Our favorite team - building activity is : " Brainstorming . We love solving problems and , as a startup , we have new challenges every day . How do we automate certain information ? What new feature should be built into the product ? It is all in a day 's work . " The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : " Passion and complimentary skill sets . We want people who believe in the vision for what we are building and can add value to our team - while not locking their knees . Flexibility is also key because the business grows in many ways you do n't expect . " What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : " Roll up your sleeves and do n't think you are above doing any part of the business . Melissa and I are n't hair stylists , makeup artists or massage therapists , but , despite our work experience and education , we still sweep up hair , carry massage tables or go door - to - door soliciting customers . You have more respect for each role if you wear those shoes , and it helps you see your business from fresh perspectives . "