Startups put great effort into finding the perfect name . Ideally , it should be short , memorable , descriptive , and easy to pronounce . Names that meet all the criteria are commonly taken , however , so most founders find a compromise . They settle on a creative misspelling , add a word or just string together sounds they like . In the end , the hope is that a well - named startup will have an easier time attracting customers and capital . Observing companies founded and funded in the past couple years , it 's apparent that startups are often thinking along the same lines when it comes to choosing a name . They 're making reference to hot technologies like AI , opting for two- or three - word names , or simply making up words . " We 're surprised at how many names we can make up that sound like they should be in the dictionary , even if they 're not , " says Athol Foden , founder of Brighter Naming , a corporate naming consultancy . He 's also impressed by how many really good names come out of creative combinations of common nouns and verbs . We crunched through names of more than 1,000 startups founded in the past two years to look for trends . We narrowed the query to startups that have raised $ 200,000 or more in an effort to focus on names of companies that secured investment . Here is a rundown on some of the recent trends . Venture capitalists love artificial intelligence companies lately , and AI is a concise , universally recognized abbreviation . So it 's not surprising to see funded startups cropping up with " AI " in their names . We counted at least 23 funded companies founded in the past two years that have AI in their names . By far the biggest funding recipient with an AI name is Argo AI , a startup in the ultra - hot autonomous vehicle space that secured a $ 1 billion investment from Ford in February . Other sizeable rounds went to Aidoc , a provider of AI - powered medical imaging tools for radiologists , and Rulai , which incorporates AI into customer experience software . You might think it would be natural for a robotics company to call itself one . Looking at companies in the space that raised funding recently , that 's clearly the trend . Crunchbase records show at least ten companies founded and funded in the past two years with " robotics " or " robot " in their names . But in previous investment cycles , when the industry was less in vogue with venture capitalists , many companies chose names that did n't reveal their robotics focus . One of the most prominent was Kiva Systems , a developer of robot technology for warehouses that Amazon bought for $ 775 million five years ago . Others include Harvest Automation and Blue River Technology . Of course , there are also some older companies , such as Roomba - maker iRobot , that chose names reflecting their robotics roots . Giving companies a human first name is n't a new thing in startup circles . Perhaps the best - known startup in this category is Oscar , a four - year - old health insurance company that has raised over $ 700 million . Lynda.com , an online learning provider that sold to LinkedIn two years ago for $ 1.5 billion , also follows the first name trend . Perhaps Oscar , Lynda , and , more recently , Viv , served as an inspiration to others . In the past two years , we 've seen Albert , Lucy , Ollie , Penny , Pearl , Riley , and Yoshi crop up , among others . Extra points go to Aiden , an AI - powered tool for marketers , for scoring a brand that includes both an AI reference and a popular first name . Apple did pretty well with this strategy . Now others are hoping it 'll work for them . We 're seeing a number of tech startups turning to the grocery shelves for naming ideas in the past couple years . From the dairy aisle , we have Butter.ai , a digital personal assistant , and Cheddar , an online financial news network that closed a $ 19 million round this week . Representing the produce section , there 's Plum , an online saving tool . And from the bakery , we have Bagel Labs , developer of a smart tape measure , and Donut Media , a startup targeting auto enthusiasts . Is your dream startup name taken ? No worries . Just delete the " i " and replace it with a " y , " change that " c " to a " k , " or try a different vowel . Those are some popular techniques in creative misspelling that startups are using to secure names that sound like common words . Names featuring a " y " in place of " I " include Mylestone and Shyft Technologies . For the " c " and " k " switcheroo , there 's Kustomer and Kard . For other catchy typo names , see our list here . As Foden told Crunchbase News , founders ' creativity has allowed for a much wider array of catchy startup names than even naming professionals would have thought possible . He 'd predicted a few years ago that startups would turn to obscure foreign languages for names ; instead . they are still mostly using their native tongues . Startups have also managed to stretch out the name supply by going with two words , Usually , the first name is the brand and the second indicates sector . But according to Foden , the two - word naming trend is likely temporary for founders with big ambitions . Once a company passes the $ 100 billion valuation mark , it 's common to drop the second word . No one calls Cisco Systems anything but Cisco anymore . And as for Apple , most young people probably do n't even remember that it used to be Apple Computer .