Always following " best practices " is n't necessarily best for your own unique business . In the startup world especially , the further outside the box you think , the better . And if you do n't believe us , take a look at this inspiring interview . David Greenberg is the founder & CEO of Updater , the technology company revolutionizing how Americans move . By changing the industry , he set himself up for success while completing transforming the moving process . Check out an interview with him below : I really admire Michael Bloomberg , both for what he 's done as a business leader and for his contributions as a philanthropist . Do n't be afraid to veer off the typical pathway for fundraising and growing your business . Every business is different , so consistently following " best practices " is generally not a good practice . With so much well - documented advice out there today from venture capitalists and other entrepreneurs , take it all in but view everything with skepticism . You need to figure out the " best practice " for your own unique business . Only you can figure that out - not an outsider . There are three big mistakes that I made early on in my journey as an entrepreneur : I tend to stay up very late at night working from home on investor relations and strategy . Therefore , I come into the office on the later side , usually between 10 and 11 a.m. By the time I arrive , there are many emails waiting for me and it takes me that first hour to respond to the urgent ones . I hate slowing down my team , so I try to respond quickly to internal requests for advice or help . My team is familiar with the late night / late morning routine , so they send any urgent requests in the morning during my first hour - we 're in a great rhythm ! After that first hour , though , I try not to check my email again until much later in the day . For technology companies that are n't cash flow positive , your cash is your lifeline . You need to accomplish certain key milestones before running low on money so that you 'll be well positioned to raise more . The biggest cash flow mistake is actually wasting time on things that do n't move the needle to help you raise more money . Time is money , and you need to spend nearly all of your time accomplishing the milestones that will enable you to raise more money . Do n't take your eye off of this for even a day . Spending time on other things increases your risk of going broke . How about two things ? You know those people at your company who you know - deep down - are n't a good fit or are causing problems ? Time to let them go . Also , you know how - deep down - you need someone amazing to take either your sales , product , marketing or engineering to the next level ? Time to go find and fiercely recruit that person . Your success or failure is just a function of the people around you . I believe that success is achieved when your business does two things : changes an industry for the better , and makes people happy , both your employees and your customers . Read more inspiring interviews here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .