Looking to get into the South African startup scene or catch up on some of your skills ? Well , you 've come to the right place . There are loads of competitions , networking sessions and workshops happening around South Africa and the rest of the continent ( namely Kenya , Nigeria and Ghana ) that we 've rounded up to make your life a bit easier . This article is part of a weekly series that highlights all the top startup competitions , networking sessions , workshops and conferences around South Africa , and the greater region . If you have any event recommendations for us to add to the list , or next week 's , please let us know in the comments below or send us an email . Not all of the events are free and some will require booking in advance . Please click on the event names to find out more information . Xtraordinary Women Networking Bashia Galt , the owner of BMG Marketing and SEO specialist will be giving a talk on how businesses can advertise with Google , effectively increasing its online presence . The programme will provide participants with insights on how the first page on Google is structured , ways to present your business on Google , stats on recent search behaviours as well as how to assess your business ' website and competition . The event is a paid event , with R195 to be paid via EFT or a cash payment of R220 into the organiser 's account to cover the deposit fee . No cash will be handled on the day . Date : 3 April , 8:30am to 10:00am Location : Beach Road , R44 , 7140 Strand , Western Cape , Cape Town Craft V 's Enterprise Workshop with Tim Holmes The MD of Sirdar , Tim Holmes , will be running a workshop at Barclay 's Rise office at the Woodstock Exchange on topics such as Craft vs Enterprise as and the Law of 3 Hats . He 'll also share his experience working with different sized companies both in SA and abroad . Date : 5 April , 12:00pm to 1:00pm Location : 5th Floor , Block B , Woodstock Exchange , 66 Albert Road , Woodstock Weekly Breakfast Networking Meeting This networking event hosted by Business Networking International welcomes all entrepreneurs to join a group of 30 business owners to build stronger relationships and networks relating to their industries . The group however only caters for one person per industry . If your industry already has a representative , you will be referred to another chapter which has a vacancy . The breakfast is R130 and needs to be paid in advance for a seat to be secured . You will also be required to register for the event before you 're able to attend . Date : 5 April , 8:15am to 10:00am Location : 144 Campground Road , Newlands , Cape Town Squad Cape Town This workshop is dedicated to female entrepreneurs who want to discuss other women in entrepreneurial endeavours . The meetup is designed to be a supportive space for open dialogue . Date : 6 April , 8:00am to 11:00am Location : 7 Dock Street , Waterfront , Cape Town NEW Format Launch of The Business Book Club Join Gareth Cliff at The Business Book Club to hear his story on how he transitioned from a radio presenter to an entrepreneur . The interactive session will provide attendees with the opportunity to pick his brain on stories covered in his book as well as those that were n't published . Date : 4 April , 8:00am to 11:00am Location : 1 Montecasino Blvd , 2021 , Johannesburg Free Entrepreneur SOCIAL & Networking Meetup This social event will take the form of a more relaxed evening for entrepreneurs to get to know one another in a comfortable setting . One lucky winner will also receive a free pizza as well as a drink to the value of R100 . Date : 4 April , 7:00pm to 9:00pm Location : 42 Witkoppen Road , Rustic Timber Centre Fourways , Gauteng , Johannesburg Metta Master Class : Understanding Your Leadership Journey Join relationship - strategy consultant , Ed Cohen for his masterclass on how to become a better leader . The master class will aim to teach you how to identify the most desired leadership qualities , how to clarify and communicate your leadership philosophy as well as how to apply the lessons learned . Date : 4 April , 6:00pm to 9:00pm Location : Metta Nairobi , 14 Riverside Drive , Belgravia , Building Nairobi , Nairobi County , Kenya 2nd East Africa Retail Expansion Summit The retail expansion summit brings together high - level executives from retail owners , investors , architects and many others . The various talks and panel discussions will tackle different investment strategies , commercial challenges as well as operational efficiencies , to name a few topics . Date : 5 April , 6:00pm to 9:00pm Location : Villa Rosa Kempinski Hotel , Chiromo Road , Nairobi , Kenya Startup Grind Nairobi : Duncan Goldie - Scot   Startup Grind Nairobi hosts entrepreneur and investor Duncan Goldie - Scot for a fireside chat about his journey as both an entrepreneur and an investor . The agenda for the evening consists of drinks and networking , a brief overview of Startup Grind Nairobi and the fireside chat . Date : 7 April , 6:00pm to 9:00pm Location : Belgravia Suite 6A , 14 Riverside , Nairobi Corporate Image and Business Etiquette Skills Training This workshop will focus on training entrepreneurs on the various dos and don'ts of business as well as how to carry themselves with confidence . Once participants have completed the course , they 'll be able to project a positive corporate image , equip their staff with similar teachings , promote professionalism at work and much more . Date : 8 April , 2:00pm to 7:00pm Location : Panari Hotel , Mombasa Rd , Nairobi , Nairobi County 00506 Kenya Management and Business Optimization Master Class The Tufts masterclass aims to equip startups with all the necessary tools relating to the basic concepts of strategic business management . The masterclass will cover the entire framework , giving participants the ability to make better decisions regarding sales within their businesses . Date : 4 April , 9:00am to late Location : Tufts Management School Campus , 12 Land bridge Avenue , Oniru Estate , Victoria Island Abuja Agribusiness Summit 2017 The summit will showcase the various advantages of Nigeria 's Agriculture Value Chain . This two - day practical summit is open to all agropreneurs and would - be agropreneurs . The modules to be covered include fish farming and its challenges and opportunities , agro - processing through value addition , government programmes on credit windows and marketing strategies , record keeping and much more . Date : 7 April , 9:00am to late Location : Abuja , Exclusive to Registered Participants Abuja , FCT , Nigeria Have a startup event that you 'd like featured on next week 's event roundup ? Send us an email .