Today , ethical and sustainable products are king . Nearly three - fourths of Millennials , the demographic piloting this movement , are willing to pay more for sustainable products , according to a recent Nielsen study . Another 91 percent will switch brands to benefit a cause they believe in . And for budding tech companies looking to attract Millennial customers , these statistics are worth noting . With overwhelming majorities of the nation 's largest generation prioritizing sustainability , ethics can no longer be a thoughtless add - on to existing models . If today 's companies want to prosper , sustainability and social responsibility must become core business practices . Nowhere has this trend taken root more deeply than in the tech sector . From established brands like LinkedIn and Philips to disruptive startups like littleBits and Skeleton Technologies , tech companies are making sustainability more than a marketing gimmick -- they 're making it a competitive advantage . To create and maintain a sustainable business , companies -- both those in tech and elsewhere -- should keep these three strategies in mind : Although governments and charities do important work , they often lack the private sector 's technological prowess . And while nonprofits like Code for America are starting to bridge this divide , for - profit tech leaders are increasingly drawing a dual bottom line . By creatively applying their talents , they 're growing their companies while addressing social problems . That 's exactly what cofounder Tom Hooper has done at Third Space Learning . Hoping to tackle educational inequality in his home country of England , Hooper created a platform to match at - risk students with tutors worldwide . The ed - tech startup has raised more than PS2.5 million , provided more than 90,000 one - on - one tutoring hours , and been named one of the U.K. 's most socially responsible businesses . Despite the fact that consumers prefer to shop sustainably , many popular products are n't environmentally friendly . Those that are , in most cases , are out of reach for budget - conscious consumers . In other cases , sustainable options simply do n't exist . Creating sustainable alternatives , then , is n't just good for the planet ; it 's also good business . CRU Kafe , another U.K .- based tech brand , is pioneering a better coffee capsule . Founded by three friends tired of wasting so much plastic with their Nespresso machines , the coffee brand stands by its earth - friendly promise . It even joined energy tech startup Bio - Bean to create coffee logs and biofuels from WIRED2016 's coffee waste . Whatever the company 's cause , embed it in the culture . From the boardroom to developers ' desks , social impact should factor into every decision . People and the planet -- not just profit -- should be considered with every product . This focus appeals to socially conscious consumers , but more importantly , it ensures the team does n't lose sight of its mission . Medopad , a U.K. mobile health provider , does a great job of this . " We want to create an ecosystem of data flowing between all parties to increase efficiencies , reduce errors , and , naturally , save costs , " Rich Khatib and Dan Vahdat , the CEO and CTO of Medopad told News Medical . " We also want to empower patients to be able to use technology in order to look after their own conditions . " To accomplish that mission , Medopad 's team aligned . Its developers built an ecosystem of easy - to - use apps connecting doctors , patients , and hospitals . From its landing page to its television ads , Medopad 's marketers highlight the brand 's social DNA across its communications . And thanks to its leaders , Medopad has secured mission - driven investments from some of the world 's top healthcare , pharmaceutical , insurance , and technology companies . These days , it 's not enough to just believe in a cause . Anyone can tweet a hashtag or hold a charity auction . Living , breathing , and rallying others to a social mission is more difficult -- but , as today 's tech founders can attest , it 's also more rewarding .