Last year , 2016 , will undoubtedly go down as one of the most pivotal years in the history of virtual reality ( VR ) . Major VR platforms , from the likes of Google , Facebook and Sony , were either promised or actually released , giving this new technology added credibility from these corporate heavyweights . What 's more , devices that utilize virtual reality -- and its cousin , augmented reality -- have evolved from the dreams of tech enthusiasts to something your uncle can purchase from his local brick - and - mortar retailer . Consumer demand , high - quality devices and market conditions have all aligned to make VR and AR the next major advancements in the tech world . Investors , meanwhile , have also offered enthusiastic support for these technologies , pouring in $ 1.7 billion over the past 12 months . Look no further than the runaway success of Pokemon GO as an indication of how eager consumers are to embrace AR . Ecommerce companies should be taking feverish notes : A recent demonstration of AR technology by Florida - based startup Magic Leap showed one way retailers might integrate AR technology into an e - commerce environment : The demonstration showed how a user could superimpose virtual models of lamps and other room decor atop a real - world dresser , with the digital objects shown to scale , to help the user determine how those items might look within the space . So , the message here is that , far from just being a feature for games , AR may well up - end and upgrade the shopping experience as we know it . The cost of entry is still relatively low , and the potential benefits are outrageously high . About two decades ago , Walmart failed to recognize the potential of the internet . As a result , Amazon was able to claim a significant portion of the big box chain 's retail audience . The VR and AR boom might not be quite as transformational as the dawn of ecommerce , but retailers still ca n't afford to ignore this potential shift in technology and consumer demand . The biggest hurdle customers so often face is determining whether a certain product is right for them . AR offers shoppers the confidence that may motivate purchasing decisions . Retailers , then , should be looking for ways to integrate AR into their stores . That will allow customers to view the in - depth information available online -- including reviews , related products and price -- while simultaneously looking at the actual   physical product via a smartphone . More importantly , AR in particular can provide users with an in - store shopping experience , regardless of their location . Devices can superimpose 3D objects in various spaces , giving customers a chance to interact with digital renderings from the comfort of their own homes . IKEA and Converse , respectively , already allow users to envision pieces of furniture in their homes or shoes on their feet in real time using smartphone apps . As more consumers opt for an authentic and enhanced digital shopping experience , retailers of all stripes will have to alter where and how they sell products . It 's not enough to simply use AR in a trivial manner . Retailers must make it a significant component of marketing , sales and IT efforts to ensure it resonates with shoppers . To do this , retailers have to do more than blindly throw darts at the AR wall ; they need to consider the needs of customers and the goals of their companies . Here are some of those considerations : Offer a useful experience . It 's easy to treat AR technology as a novelty or toy , but the platform allows you to deliver incredible value to undecided shoppers . While some organizations feel pressured to create their own unique take on AR , they might find it makes sense to invest in smaller companies to do the work for them . For example , a Sephora app employs ModiFace technology to allow users to take a " selfie " and then apply a variety of cosmetic products to their faces . Instead of spending hours debating the merits of eyeliner options in - store , Sephora customers can narrow their choices from home and streamline the shopping process . Add novelty to retail . Between physical and online marketplaces , intense competition is being waged within most verticals . Incorporating AR is an immediate way for retailers to stand out from the pack . Eyewear retailer Warby Parker , for instance , differentiated itself from competitors by allowing shoppers to try items on before a purchase . Virtual shopping offers the same novelty , without any of the costs associated with shipping products to clients . The technology hasn't been perfected , but the possibility of creating an avatar and having it try on digital clothing via something such as Wolfprint 3D is not far off . In fact , a 2015 study by Walker Sands showed that 35 percent of consumers surveyed said they would shop more online if they could interact with products virtually .   Allow users to customize . Retailers such as Nordstrom have distinguished themselves from competitors by offering a fully personalized shopping experience , guided by a knowledgeable curator who knows an individual shopper 's style , sizes and preferences . As a result , Nordstrom became famous for its customer service . AR has the potential to deliver these personalized services to the masses . Users are hungry for this sort of digital customization , whether it be an app that allows them to test out different color combinations or a friendly AI offering clothing suggestions based on purchase history . Those retailers that reap the biggest benefits of AR and VR will be the ones willing to invest resources early , and fully commit to the technology . Shoppers are anxious for the breakthrough that will finally remove uncertainty from the buying process . And AR has the potential to do just that , but only if retailers work to bring the technology into the real world . Eden Chen is the co - founder of Fishermen Labs , a Los Angeles - based development agency focused on custom web and mobile app development . Fishermen Labs has created more apps in the App Store than any other company in Southern Calif ...