Martin and David Tobias . ( ReTree Photos )   Seattle entrepreneur Martin Tobias 's latest venture was inspired by his six - year - old . He and his daughter were visiting his brother , David Tobias , and his six - year - old in Los Angeles when the lightbulb went off . They were wandering around a densely - wooded upper - class suburb and the girls were delighting in the surrounding trees . The foursome then purchased and planted some trees of their own -- and they decided not to let the family fun stop there . Martin and David , wistful for the days when they worked side - by - side leading the Seattle daily deals startup Tippr , decided to launch a non - profit that uses tech to encourage reforestation around the world . Today , that idea comes to fruition with the launch of ReTree . " When David and I put our brains together and said , ' What do the two of us do really well ? ' One was create compelling shopping experiences , which we had done when we were at Tippr , and the second is to create compelling technology that moves things forward , " said Martin Tobias in an interview with GeekWire . Through the ReTree website , individual donors can purchase a tree for $ 1 and select one of 30 countries where it will be planted . The non - profit says that the " donor - assisted reforestation " program will help battle climate change and air pollution , which it describes as a " formidable public health crisis " that leads to about 6.5 million deaths each year . ReTree is also licensing its technology to e - commerce companies so they can add optional tree - planting donations to their checkout process . " What we have is a platform that allows an e - commerce retailer to integrate with the 30 countries and 70 partners that we have on our platform so the integration to add trees into your existing e - commerce platform is easier -- plug - and - play -- and is also broader because we 've set up all the relationships for you , " said Tobias . ReTree is a passion project for Tobias , who has three decades working for Seattle tech giants like Microsoft , building startups , and investing in other ventures . He 's perhaps best - known as the founder of Loudeye Technologies , a dot - com era digital music service that eventually fell on hard times and sold to Nokia . In 2004 , Tobias led a biodiesel operation called Imperium Renewables , which raised massive amounts of funding and then sold to Renewable Energy Corp in 2015 . After the acquisition , Tobias made some strategic investments in the cannabis industry but he says he 's currently divesting those interests . " One of the things I 've done a couple times is try to be early in what I think are really big markets , " he said . " When I was in digital media and started Loudeye , I was very early in digital media . In biodiesel , I was early in biodiesel and I knew that there was going to be a lot of change coming there . I was early into cannabis , but what was different about biodiesel and digital media is I was , personally , very passionate about those products . " When it comes to cannabis , Tobias 's heart just is n't in it . " I prefer bourbon , " he jokes . Speaking of bourbon , ReTree is auctioning off a rare 1980 Old fashioned Copper Bourbon from Buffalo Trace to get some initial traction for the business . Proceeds will go toward planting trees and bringing on some staff to build out the non - profit operation . " I 'm super excited to be involved in something that 's not just about making money and it 's something that I can be involved with my kids doing , as well , " said Tobias . " So is my brother , David . I 'm very excited to be working , again , with my brother . "