A Cape Town startup is looking to change the way customers buy and sell cars on the internet , by using machine learning and what it says is a unique payment model . The startup launched its platform last month after trading for six months to gain proof of concept . Get\Worth co - founder Mark Ridgway - a former CEO of TransUnion Receivables - says the company was able to conclude about R20-million in deals through the platform in March . The startup 's model is different from other online car dealers such as CarZAR.co.za and WeBuyCars.co.za . When get\Worth takes ownership of the car , the seller is able to get immediate cash in hand , just like most other online car dealerships . However , get\Worth claims their model is unique as the seller is then also able to get a further payment based on the difference in the trade and retail price that the dealer is able to conclude after subtracting its fees . " We are offering more than cash , we are offering value too , " says Ridgway . " We think this is almost first world . We 've researched it . No one is providing a product to the seller ( like this ) . " The company charges buyers ' fees that are calculated as R7500 on each sale plus 1% of the retail price as well as a financing fee . After refurbishing the car , the company takes an average of between 60 and 90 days to reach the best possible sale price for the vehicle . Buyers are able to tap vehicle finance and get seven days or 700 km after the sale of a vehicle in which they are able to return it for a money back guarantee . As an example , Ridgway says the company was able to pay a seller an extra R160 000 on a Mercedes - Benz GL350 following the initial R380 000 the seller got on the trade value of the car , before get\Worth were able to sell it to a buyer for R569 000 . Fees made up the difference of R19 000 . In another example he provided , a seller was able to get a retail price of R229 000 for their 2013 Audi A1 1.4 t Ambition S - Tronic after a search for a buyer after 40 days , upon initially securing a trade price of R175 500 with the company ( and after factoring in repair costs ) . After the deduction of fees the seller was able to get a further R27 000 Ridgway says the founders as well as friends and family have together invested about R10-million in the startup and are now in talks with various investors to obtain R4-million in funding . The company 's lean operation also helps to cut costs as the company has no fancy showroom , operating instead from an industrial area of Montague Gardens , where vehicles purchased from sellers are stored in a warehouse . To calculate the best trade price for a client 's car the startup deploys machine learning algorithms which consider variables such as retail price points and the car 's age and mileage . Initially the three sought to buy an existing dealership with the idea of doing things differently . However , they found that the industry structure was facing huge change and decided it would be better to lead rather than follow . " It 's about disrupting things , " says Ridgway . While he says the startup will mostly target millennials who are looking to the internet to buy cars , he and fellow co - founders Jamie Surkont ( a former CEO of Electronic Toll Collection ) and Colin Morgan ( former business manager ) are all over the age of 40 . " When you get older you get a bit grumpy , " admits Ridgway , who is 55 . The company admits that its main barrier is that of communication and differentiation , because the product is novel and more complex than a straightforward traditional buy or sell . Another challenge is that the company had to reject 40% of the 205 deals valued at R36-million that passed through the platform during March . Ridgway says deals were rejected either because sellers ' vehicles were too old , had very high mileage , because the seller was from an outlying area , or because the seller 's vehicle financing debt with the bank exceeded the vehicle 's possible trade price . Currently there are 17 vehicles up for sale and 25 deals in the pipeline which represents about R8-million in potential revenue , with average deals valued at about R250 000 , he says . In the short term , the company , which has seven employees ( including the founders ) will focus on South Africa and Ridgway says plans are already underway to open a branch in Johannesburg . The company has lodged patents on certain aspects of its product and the founders intend to find offshore partners to assist a roll - out in selected countries . Their immediate aim is to reach 1000 vehicle deals per month and expand to covering other assets and providing additional services , citing financial products as one example . Ventureburn focuses on startup news and technology trends in emerging markets . More about us here More in News , Startup news , Startups