According to to a study by Hubspot , organizations that have a company blog receive 67 percent more leads than those who do not . 77 percent of all internet users read blogs while blogs have a ROI of 600 percent . The benefits of having a blog include the ability to capture leads , engage prospective customers and become a thought leader or authority figure in your industry . Here are a few reasons why your startup absolutely needs a blog . The more leads you receive , the more likely you are to make a sale . The best part of online content is that you 'll be able to obtain new leads even when you 're not working . Older blog posts can provide a lot of traction and visitors if they offer useful information and receive organic traffic . Blogging helps customers find your business and learn more about your services . If you do n't have a large budget you can simply blog yourself . After all , you are an expert in your niche and writing about topics you 're already familiar about should come naturally . Blogging does n't have to cost a dim , unlike expensive PPC campaigns or Facebook ads . Blogging allows you to become a thought leader and become recognized as an expert in your industry among peers , colleagues and even competitors . As you gain more influence and clout , you 'll find that some of your best customers will start finding you , instead of the other way around . Creating content around your company and services brings your brand to life . According to research by the Corporate Executive Board , 64 percent of customers who purchased from a company did so due to shared beliefs . For example , Timberland creates footwear made out of recycled materials which resonates with buyers who are eco - conscious . Consumers are more likely to relate to brands who stand for something other than being profitable . Blogging allows you to expand on your company 's beliefs and values . Posting on a regular basis allows you to build rapport and engage with your customers . Potential buyers who have read your company blog are more likely to be receptive to your brand . Blogging also allows you to find out how your customers feel about your services . Leave blog comments open in order to encourage discussion . Blogging is n't just a way to reach out to customers . It 's also a way to connect with others in your industry including peers and competitors . You can make new business contacts and come across new opportunities . Telling a story makes more of an impact than listing your latest technology or services . Tell a compelling story about the impact of your services on other people or the market . Visual aids like video can help to personalize your story even more and bring it to life . A company blog enables you to give accurate information about your services and brand to your customers directly instead of having them rely on unauthorized third parties . Blogging provides you with a platform to manage your reputation and shape your story without being at the mercy of others .