There 's no reason to sugar coat it : parking sucks . Between finding a spot and trying to parallel park , the stress caused by simply trying to get out of your car is unprecedented . Whether you 're in a bustling big city or even a small town , parking your car is easily the worst part about driving . Fortunately , one startup is looking to change that in a meaningful way that everyone can get on board with . Dallas - based ParkHub is using innovative technology and improved processes to make parking easier for everyone . With three products , Prime , Portal , and soon - to - be Pulse , ParkHub could completely change the way road transportation functions in cities across the world from top to bottom . Founded in 2010 by George Baker , a former events manager , ParkHub was the born out of necessity . As perhaps the biggest headache for event managers , parking has been a problem since the Ford Model - T hit the road . But with Prime , ParkHub 's flagship product , Baker gave event managers the technology they need to make money without causing all those pesky lines . " I have always been driven to leverage technology and with these early exposures to the cash heavy industry and analog accounting process , " said Baker in an interview with Tech . Co . " In my later years managing Southern Methodist University Athletics and various other event operations in the DFW metroplex , I began to see how technology could create accountability in those operations and optimize these inefficient processes and procedures . " George Baker Since 2010 , ParkHub has been busy making moves in the business world . After participating in their first Super Bowl in 2011 , ParkHub fielded a wide range of offers and has since made deals with TicketMaster , Live Nation , and the Dallas Cowboys , among other notable sports stadiums . Achieving this level of success was n't easy . Between finding funding and scaling their business Baker and his team went through quite a few growing pains . However , this only helped to bolster their success in the long run , while teaching Baker a very important lesson about growth . " When you start out , everyone wears every hat , " said Baker . " As you grow as a company , these roles and responsibilities necessarily change and narrow . Managing these internal changes is challenging , especially when you are growing rapidly . "   As drivers get more and more frustrated with parking as the days go on , ParkHub 's future looks bright . Not only will they be expanding to MLB stadiums in the coming months , but they also plan to make ParkHub more of an individual necessity with their upcoming product , Pulse , which gives up - to - date information on spot occupancy nearby . And with all this potential , it 's no wonder why they 're excited about setting up in Dallas . " There is an enormous untapped investor base in Dallas , it just is n't used to doing tech deals , " explained Baker . " We have raised significant capital from this investor base by educating them as to how tech investments are structured . Once they were comfortable and understood how these types of investments differ from their traditional oil and gas or real estate investments , the money followed . " Stay up to date on ParkHub and several other Dallas - based companies at Dallas Startup Week powered by Chase for Business . This article is part of a Startup Week content series brought to you by CHASE for BUSINESS . Startup Week is celebration of entrepreneurs in cities around the globe . CHASE for BUSINESS is everything a business needs in one place , from expert advice to valuable products and services . Find business news , stories , insights and expert tips all in one place at Chase.com / forbusiness . Read the rest of our Startup Week series . Graphics courtesy of ParkHub