Startup Vivid Vision said today it has raised $ 2.2 million in a seed round to build VR tools that could be used to treat eye problems known as " lazy eye . " San Francisco - based Vivid Vision raised the money from SoftTech VC 's Jeff Clavier , as well as The Venture Reality Fund ( The VR Fund ) , CRCM Ventures , SOS Ventures , Anorak Ventures , and Liquid 2 Ventures , a seed - stage venture capital firm cofounded by Hall of Fame NFL quarterback Joe Montana . The company 's VR treatment for binocular vision disorders is now available at more than 90 clinics across the world . More than 10 percent of Americans suffer from one or more binocular vision disorders , such as amblyopia , strabismus , or convergence insufficiency . These disorders , commonly known as " lazy eye " and " crossed eyes , " can cause issues with driving and playing sports , and can even limit career choices . They also greatly impact one 's quality of life -- even getting in the way of personal relationships and sometimes leading to social stigma . Above : Vivid Vision can help fix lazy eye . Founded in 2014 , Vivid Vision is a medical technology company applying virtual reality to the field of vision care . Its founder and CEO , James Blaha , a programmer and lifelong sufferer of lazy eye , started the company after experimenting on himself . Before building the first prototype , Blaha could n't read with his weak eye or see in 3D. Since then , the vision in Blaha 's weak eye has improved to nearly 20/20 . His experiments gathered worldwide attention , and Vivid Vision launched its clinical vision therapy suite in late 2015 for optometrists and ophthalmologists . Since then , the 90 clinics using it have treated more than 6,000 patients . On average , treatment lasts eight months , with patients coming one or two times a week to use the VR system . " It is a unique , far more efficient solution to treat Amblyopia , as well as a wide array of binocular vision dysfunction , " said Dan Fortenbacher , founder of Wow Vision Therapy , which has two locations in Michigan . " The progress the patient makes in breaking through suppression and developing 3D vision has been remarkable with Vivid Vision . " Wow Vision was one of the first practices to use virtual reality in a clinical setting . Vivid Vision will use this new round of funding to expand and accelerate its vision care platform . Although the treatment is currently only available in clinics under the supervision of a trained eye care professional , the company is releasing its home version of the treatment , Vivid Vision Home , later this year . Vivid Vision Home runs on both desktop and mobile VR platforms and will require a prescription from an eye doctor . " Vivid Vision Home will make vision therapy accessible to millions of new patients for whom treatment was previously too expensive or inconvenient , " said Blaha , in a statement . " We 're really fortunate to be partnered with the best optometrists , ophthalmologists , and vision scientists to make this a reality . " Ubisoft has also been working on a VR game to address lazy eye .