Tech has stolen the market cap crown from the oil tycoons . This change is perfectly natural according to a panel of regional experts last month at Innovation Weekend in Tokyo , but the Silicon Valley kingdom is also teetering on being overthrown . " The day of America as the single IT leader is over , " writes founding partner Takeshi Ebihara of Rebright Partners on his blog . Citing PricewaterhouseCoopers ' MoneyTree report , Takeshi emphasises that the amount of funding for startups in China grew eightfold in just two years to US$ 37 billion in 2015 . That 's less than US$ 59 billion in the same period for the US . But Takeshi believes the US$ 37 billion pumped into Chinese startups in the first half of 2016 alone , as shown by the Tech in Asia Database , shows China is now on par with Silicon Valley . The panellists agree it 's not just funding . Unicorn distribution and the amount of money spent on research and development are also shifting to Asia . " China is probably going to be the biggest winner the human race has ever seen , " explains Keith Teare , co - founder of TechCrunch and partner at Archimedes Labs . Serial entrepreneur and host of Disrupting Japan Tim Romero pushed back on that and stressed that market capitalization and valuations are poor measures of innovation . While Tim praises the research being done in life sciences and fields like autonomous driving in China , he feels Silicon Valley is still unrivalled as the birthplace of truly innovative business models . Keith admits the Bay Area is no longer exceptional , but it is incredible that it still produces 40 percent of the world 's unicorns . The good news for founders is that success is no longer limited to geography . Takeshi , for example , is excited for the future of India 's tech scene as well . He points out that the yearly economic growth rate in India is 7.9 percent , even faster than China 's 6.7 percent . " India will grow so much that you could even say it 's fine to ignore other places , " he laughs . Many are quick to pin the economic boom in Asia to a simple increase in people , but Tim downplays the effect of population on the economy . " It 's entirely a function of change and the opportunities for startups to jump in . " Founding partner of Golden Gate Ventures Jeffrey Paine has seen these opportunities grow first hand . He recounted a recent trip to China where he spoke with founders about how entrepreneurs and the middle class no longer have to work multiple jobs and finally have personal leisure time . Young and growing economies like in Vietnam , Cambodia , and Indonesia do have the advantage of being able to create a surplus . " Last year you had ' X , ' this year you have ' X ' plus five percent , " explains Keith . " Suddenly you can take some new risks with that five percent and do some new things . " Ageing countries like Japan , on the other hand , consume all their resources just to produce at last year 's levels . To stay competitive , Keith professes that such countries need another industrial revolution . He points to Lebanon 's investment program as an example to kickstart innovation . Banks are encouraged to take risks and invest in startups through the program and the central bank then guarantees up to 75 percent of the money put in . This has created another potential US$ 400 million available for venture companies in a country with about half the population of New York . Finally , the panellists offered some advice for Japan . Jeffrey encouraged people to speak English and look for new business ideas by travelling . Keith joked that Japan should build an electric car that beats Tesla . Tim , a resident of Japan , suggested the island nation could benefit from a government - level competitive research project like the United States ' Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency . Such a program would get everyone , not just large corporations in solving big problems . " Japan has got the knowledge capital of the world , " says Tim . " I think that would be a huge shot in the arm for entrepreneurship here . " This article by Peter Rothenberg originally appeared on Tech in Asia , a Burn Media publishing partner . Feature image : Patrick Nouhailler via Flickr .