The City of London , or the Square Mile as it is often known , is synonymous with traditional financial services firms . However a recent report shows that the exclusive London enclave is looking to attract more technology startups in a bid to modernise its image . Fintech , insurtech and regtech are all booming areas within the London startup ecosystem , and the City of London Corporation is starting to ask itself if it needs to provide dedicated spaces for these startups to work within the confines of the City , in closer proximity to the companies they are looking to disrupt or augment . This will require a change in perceptions of the area , which tends to be seen as a traditional and expensive place to do business . The report conducted by the City of London Corporation and City Property Association ( CPA ) states : " Young , nimble and digitally focused businesses are challenging decades old incumbents , and the City must adapt once more , responding to the cultures , practices and aspirations of such companies to stay a vibrant , populated area of commerce . " Andy Pyle , the UK head of real estate at KPMG , told Techworld : " The City at its core has been dependent on financial services , but as they are disrupted , and with Brexit , there will be some jobs likely to move out of London , so diversification is important . " The first step for the City will be changing these perceptions if it is to attract a different type of worker . The report asks : " Is an area comfortable with a traditional business week ready to meet the demands of employees who work when and how it suits them ? Could it be that internet connectivity , public transport and street - level coffee culture are better served in the surrounding creative and tech enclaves of Shoreditch , Spitalfields and Smithfield ? " The report lays out its strategy for changing this , starting with a flagship , branded accelerator in the City : " Most City property owners feel that a single , City - branded accelerator / incubator space would be the best way of attracting emerging technology and facilitating an exchange of ideas between small companies and established firms . "   As it stands the City is flagging when it comes to shared coworking spaces in the area , with very few of London 's accelerators and incubators located within the Square Mile . Pyle from KPMG points to the success of the Level 39 accelerator in Canary Wharf as a good example of how this ' clustering ' approach can change the feel of an area quickly . The City is apparently looking at tech clusters in Sydney like Silicon Harbour and the transformation of the King 's Cross area in London as blueprints . King 's Cross has done a great job of transforming the retail offering around the station since the new station concourse opened in 2012 . The area now counts Google and a number of tech startups as residents . Despite the perception that areas like Shoreditch are cheaper than traditional spaces like the City , data in the report shows that rents are homogenising across the whole of London . Naturally , cost will always be an issue when it comes to office space , and worryingly the report found that although landlords are supportive of attracting emerging technology businesses to the City , they are " hesitant to offer discounts or enticements " . The City of London Corporation recognises its role in changing this , and says it will " need to convince them that the wider benefits of attracting startups will mitigate the possible lower valuation of buildings containing tech companies " . " Now that the value of diversity is being recognised , owners feel that they can work with the City of London Corporation to shift perceptions , create cohesive public spaces and refit offices that suit a wider range of needs . The City can become a 24/7 hub with a social aspect . " Speaking with Techworld , Daisy Gleeson , marketing and PR manager at insurtech startup Digital Fineprint , said : " As rental costs in more traditional start - up locations such as Shoreditch are rising , it is causing entrepreneurs to look for more affordable office space elsewhere . " It would of course be preferred to be within the City where there is such a high concentration of financial companies ... The major downside is that the average cost of an office in the Square Mile is PS90 per square foot per annum , which is probably too much for young startups . "   Ishaan Malhi , CEO and founder of online mortgage broker Trussle , told Techworld : " My perception is that the area has been prohibitive to startups from a cost and culture perspective . The City has been hugely successful in attracting large and high - salaried companies to the area and many of the surrounding cafes , restaurants , and shops accommodate for that audience as a result . " There are still some clear preconceptions that will have to be ironed out if the City is to become a true melting pot of old and new . Startups responded to the authors of the report with concern that they will be " seen as second - class citizens within the Square Mile " and are wary of becoming " marketing initiatives for a corporate innovation agenda " . Despite respondents from large corporates saying that they " unanimously believe that they would reap the benefits of being in close proximity to young , innovative companies " those from the tech sector displayed concern " about the threat of exploitation by large corporates " . Incumbents also fear a dilution of the " historic context of the City " and are wary of the trendy fads of startup culture infiltrating the area . The report states : " While the likes of street food and outdoor cinema events sound appealing , interviewees noted that the City remains a working environment , so the needs of more traditional occupiers must be considered in respect to crowds , access and noise . " The report outlines the lure for the area to tech startups : " Access to talent and expertise , a huge potential for commercial partnerships with established players and an explosion in demand for digital products within finance . " Becky Downing , CEO of insurtech startup Buzzmove , told Techworld : " The City has great transport links and locating in the City would be a great way to reiterate our message that we 're open for business and ready to partner with more insurers on our latest blockchain - based product offering . "   However , she is resistant to the Silicon Roundabout cliches that the report hints at . " While cafes and outside meeting spaces can be useful , that 's more for early - stage startups , " Downing said . " What we 'd really need is plenty of office meeting space and completely reliable broadband connections . We 're not really interested in hanging out with startups as much as we are partners and customers . We 're not seeking to be " cool " , we 're seeking more growth , more success and more partnerships . " Also , modern startups do n't appear to value physical proximity to potential customers or partners as much as the report assumes . Downing said : " In today 's connected age , physical proximity to insurance companies is really not that important from a practical perspective . But the psychological impact of being right next door would be much greater - both for our existing and future insurance partners , and for our customers , knowing that we 're located in Britain 's most prestigious financial district . "   This mirrored comments from Phoebe Hugh , cofounder and CEO of insurtech startup Brolly , who told Techworld : " In reality , being in walking distance does n't provide enough tangible value to us for it to influence our decision of where to be based , being in London is good enough . We also like being an outsider in a sense , as it gives us adequate space to focus on evolving the industry , whilst not being too attached to the ' now ' . "