When Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg took the stage today to open F8 , the social giant 's annual developer conference , he wanted to address the elephant in the room . Another big tentpole event named F8 had already kind of stolen his thunder : the recent premiere of his buddy Vin Diesel 's latest movie , the eight installment of the Fast and the Furious franchise . Moving on to his main focus , Zuckerberg shared with the crowd Facebook 's mission going forward , riffing quite literally on the comprehensive treatise he published in February ( he held up a sizable stack of paper that may or may not have been the printed open letter ) . The Facebook founder said the company 's next steps would be to bring the digital and physical together and to " work on building common ground . " To that end , Facebook 's next technological leap , now that it is the owner of four out of the five most downloaded apps in the world , is to step into the world of augmented reality . But Facebook is n't the only company with designs on augmented reality . This week , Snap rolled out an AR feature that lets users add special effects to their photos , in addition to the already popular face mask effects , according to The Wall Street Journal . Other major companies dipping into AR include Microsoft , Google and Apple . Zuckerberg announced that today will see the beta launch of an open AR platform through a new camera function of the app that will allow developers to create their own filters and frames . He also shared what future AR innovations could look like . He offered an example of a still photo that could be transformed into a 3D scene , where the user could pan around , change lighting and add effects such as filling the room with water , bouncing balls or skittles . Zuckerberg spoke about transforming blank walls into street art and how AR could be used to leave notes for friends in specific places , such as marking a table at your favorite bar or leaving a note for your spouse on the refrigerator . " This is going to be an important technology that changes how we use our phones , " Zuckerberg said . " There is a long road map of technology to build for years . I am confident that we are going to push this augmented reality platform forward . " That long road map included creating glasses and eventually contacts to see the world through an augmented reality lens . Meanwhile , the Facebook CEO took a moment to offer his and the company 's condolences to the family of Robert Godwin , Sr . , whose alleged killer posted a video of his murder on the social network and then confessed in a live video . Police say the alleged killer , Steve Stephens , took his own life on Tuesday . Nina Zipkin is a staff writer at Entrepreneur.com . She frequently covers media , tech , startups , culture and workplace trends .