Let 's face it , if your brand ca n't be found online , your company is n't going to survive long . In this day and age , a digital presence is a necessity for any budding startup . Even if you 're already online , keeping up with the trend of the hour can make your head spin . One moment you 've got a social media page that is gaining traction and churning out leads , and the next you 've hit a virtual ceiling . What gives ? Maybe everyone has moved onto the next platform or a popular site has changed their algorithm . Either way , you 've wasted a lot of money and time on a strategy that is already out of date . So , how can you keep up with the sheer scale of social media and news being produced on a daily basis ? It pays to know your demographic . It literally pays . A lot of marketing laymen think they can predict how their target marketing is going to act , and sometimes they make the mistake of thinking they do n't need to define their target demographic . These are fundamental mistakes that will lead to serious blunders . Once you 've picked a demographic , it will be easier to keep up with online trends , mainly because you 'll know which ones affect you and your business by knowing which ones affect your demographic . For instance , some demographics are very slow to use a new platform , whereas other demographics , often the younger ones , are known to migrate platforms all the time . Keeping up with the latest PEW research or using a professional research company can really help you stay on top of where your customers are so you can be there first . That 's the essence of inbound marketing . Experimentation is the mother of success . Setting aside some of the budget for testing the boundaries , trying unconventional strategies , and developing a presence on new platforms is not only worth the investment , it 's essential for those trying to keep up with social media trends . The nature of the game is such that . Once you 've seen the wave , it 's already too late . You have to catch the trend before it starts , and the only way to do that is through experimentation . Having the key words to describe your brand figured out goes a long way when transitioning platforms . You do n't want to reinvent the wheel every time a new trend comes around the corner .   Having a go - to message and a solid lexicon to work with makes the migration that much smoother and can get your content up and running much faster so that you can be among the first with a presence on the latest trending platform . Setting up a channel for your customers to talk to you , complain , compliment , or just give suggestions is a great idea . Listening to the information that comes through that channel is an even better idea . However , it 's hard to justify the time and resources it takes to make that possible , especially in a growing company . However , this can often give you the tip - off you need to know when a new trend is developing . Your motto should n't be " if I build it , they shall come , " it should be " If they ask for it , I shall build it . " You 've got the internet at your fingertips , and Google is your best friend . We 've all heard the solution to every question these days : Google it . Well , in many cases , as simple as that answer is , it 's the right answer .   Google is an incredibly powerful tool for keeping you up to date in any number of fields , including news about online trends . One way to do this is to set up Google Alerts on terms and influencers that are important to your industry . This handy feature updates you anytime Google posts new content or releases an interview about a new product . You can use Twitter 's dashboard to follow specific hashtags . If you want to know which hashtags are trending you can check out this website . According to Market Growth , it is , once again , all about finding the most popular hashtags to get noticed .   As we sift through the plethora of information about online trends , we find that hashtags are an incredibly efficient way to keep up to date with any topic you like . If you select some key hashtags to follow you will passively accumulate bits of information about your industry , your target demographic , and the trends you need to know about . If , after all this , you feel you 've dived too deeply into this social media abyss , I have good news : The last step is to go outside ! Yes , go out into the world and network , network , network . At this point you 've case a wide enough net into the internet , and it will keep your finger close to the pulse , in that regard .   The other side of the coin is your human contact , and the proverbial " word on the street . " Attend conventions and mixers , trade your business card , and build a collection of your own . Get out and have coffee with the eccentric lunatics who are concocting the next revolution . After all , there is no reason why you could n't , in the process of trying to predict the next wave , be one of the people who makes the next wave . Read more about social media and marketing here on Tech . Co