You ca n't be successful in the startup world on your own . Getting help is part of the process , and if you do n't see that , you 're in a lot more trouble than you might think . Do n't turn your head on genuine feedback , no matter where it comes from . We asked five entrepreneurs how they got serious feedback on their ideas in the initial stages of their business . Take a look at what they had to say below and start collaborating today : Holding a formal focus group with an unbiased target market for your product / service can be very effective . Sitting behind that two - way mirror can make you cringe , but there 's so much insight to be gained ! You 'll hear the good , the bad , the ugly , and probably a few things you haven't even thought about yet . It 'll save you a lot of time and money in your development and launch phase . - Angela Delmedico of Elev8 Consulting Group Building a new business takes more than technological skills and creative genius : It needs people . Do some research , identify people with expertise and find a way to connect with them . Prepare an agenda so you can maximize their time and have a strategic discussion . - Jessica Baker of Aligned Signs Running workshops with select customers is one possibility , while reaching out to bloggers and reviewers is another . Generally , you want to seek people who -- while they 're in your target market -- are n't directly related to you . Friends , family and employees might be overly positive ; what you want is brutal honesty . You might also consider reaching out to some of your past mentors as well . - Steven Buchwald of Buchwald & Associates First , test your idea conceptually with your trusted circle . If appropriate ( and possible ) , run some real experiments so decisions can be made with real data . - Arry Yu of GiftStarter Ask 10 of the smartest people around you about your idea . Draw up a mockup using free tools , like Axure . If you 're selling to businesses , meet with them , show them your mockup and explain your solution . Ask , " How much would you pay for this ? " There 's no better validation than from customers who are ready to buy . - James Hu of JobScan    Read more about business tips here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .   This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .