Ask almost anyone who has tried to buy a ticket to a big show as of late and they will probably tell you that the experience made them question how badly they really wanted tickets . Crowded House will tour again one day , right ? From the hours spent waiting in the queue to then finally getting through , selecting seats , and putting in your credit card details only to be logged out - not to mention paying ridiculous payment processing and/or ticket delivery fees for all your trouble when you do actually manage complete the process - the whole thing can be quite the ordeal . Looking to provide a better service to eventgoers and event promoters alike is New Zealand ticketing company Eventfinda , which last year processed 20 million tickets for events around New Zealand . Launched in 2006 , the startup was originally just an events listing platform . Cofounded by Michael Turner and James McGlinn , the idea for Eventfinda came to Turner during a trip back to New Zealand after some time in Australia . He did the usual , meeting up with friends and family for dinner , after which conversation would to what the group could do after dinner - head to a show , see if there was some kind of festival on ? As McGlinn explained , there was no central platform through which to find these kinds of listings at the time , so Turner began collecting lists of the different resources and websites out there ; ending up with over 150 , he began to think there was an opportunity there . " He then met me and convinced me about this whole idea of events discovery and how we could do it a lot better . He sold his consulting business in Australia , I sold my business , and from 2006 we were just on the kitchen table at his house , building Eventfinda , " McGlinn said . So the pair built it , and managed to convince event industry stakeholders to list their content , from band managers to venue owners , promoters , and publicists . With event listings free , Eventfinda focused on selling advertising as it built up an audience . " In those days ads were gold . We thought we would build up this big consumer portal and it would all be advertising - driven , and the we 'd sell it to a big media company , " McGlinn said . " Imagine then , two years in , it 's the end of 2007 and we 're thinking , this is it , it 's really going to work , we 're getting some traction , and then the GFC came along in 2008 and within a few months it absolutely decimated our ad revenue , which was n't part of the plan . We had to diversify and started thinking about what else we could do . " The cofounders explored a couple of options ; having effectively built the de facto national events database for New Zealand , they started a syndication network , selling the content to media outlets , and created white label offerings . They also began licensing Eventfinda in overseas markets , including Australia . Still , they were n't quite satisfied . With a number of promoters and venue managers using the platform having suggested Eventfinda explore building its own ticketing platform , McGlinn and Turner decided to take it on . " We did n't know a great deal about ticketing in those days , we had that naive startup attitude of , how hard can it be , it 's just an ecommerce thing , it 's a shopping cart . We literally went into it that naive about it , which was good because otherwise we would n't have done it because it turns out ticketing is really , really hard to get right , especially when you get into allocated seating and the complexities around promoter holds , reporting , and scalability for on - sale , " McGlinn said . " We started in October 2008 and sold our first ticket in April 2009 . We just had general admission and we thought , right , that 's the ticketing system , we might have to do a bit extra for allocated seating , so maybe that 'll take us another six to 12 months to finish off . We 're now in 2017 and still nowhere near finishing it . " Despite the users already familiar with Eventfinda through its listing service , getting customers to use the new ticketing function at the beginning was tough , McGlinn admitted . Like many a startup founder , McGlinn and Turner decided to narrow their focus down to look at specific verticals . They began bringing on a couple of gum and roots events and reggae gigs , with word of mouth then spreading in those niches and Eventfinda soon finding itself covering those categories . The startup has since found success with food and wine events too , and recently signed a contract with the Queens Lake District Council to provide ticketing for all its venues . This type of contract is common in the events industry , and is part of what contributed to Eventfinda 's difficulty breaking into the ticketing space ; most big venues have exclusive contracts with vendors such as Ticketek or Ticketmaster that mean all events they host must run through that vendor . However , McGlinn said the initial focus on niches paid off . Also key to Eventfinda 's growth , he believes , is its customer service ; the platform can be completely self - service , however McGlinn said those putting on bigger events typically want a personal concierge - type service . As such , Eventfinda 's event managers help clients with the build and setup of an event , ensure an on - sale goes smoothly , provide insight into pricing and marketing strategy , and help at the gate the day of an event , assisting with the likes of security and validation of tickets . " Our competitors have great people too but they 're stuck using these old , outdated systems where it takes days to get an event on sale . We 've got the same kinds of people , and in fact many of our people have come from those other organisations , but instead of spending their time doing that , they can spend 10 minutes getting the event up and the rest adding value for our promoters , " McGlinn said . Part of the value for clients is also Eventfinda 's data ; thanks to the fact the ticketing system was built on an event discovery platform , with events from other vendors still listed , Eventfinda can help clients understand what their customers are interested in beyond just their own events . With growth in New Zealand steady , McGlinn said a key goal for the business now is to have Eventfinda flourish in Australia . Having licensed the platform out to an Australian firm several years ago , Eventfinda recently made the decision to bring it back in - house . " The organisation had a lot of experience in media and advertising so we thought it would be a good fit , but it ended up being a site where the consumer proposition was n't as good as it was in New Zealand . There were a lot more ads , so it did n't work as well as it did here , " McGlinn explained . " In 2017 we want to smash it in Australia . "