We started 2017 with some research and the goal to create a list for each EU country which showcases some of the most promising early - stage startups that are worth following this year . Let 's take a look at bella Italia . A country with a very vital and clearly growing startup scene . In the beginning of the previous three years we presented a list with 5 Italian startups to watch . Given the large amount of interesting startups from Italy , it 's been too hard this year to narrow this list down to 5 , so we 've decided to introduce you to 10 promising Italian startups out of different sectors . All of them entered the market within the last two years and each startup has something special to add to your business life or your personal web experience in 2017 . And here is our selection : Majeeko allows the administrators of Facebook Pages to create their own attractive , professional , fully responsive and graphically customizable website with a single click . The generated website does not require any maintenance or periodic update , because it will be updated automatically from the data stream coming from the Facebook page . The Rome - based startup was founded in 2015 and secured roughly EUR475k in seed funding so far . Credimi ( formerly known as InstaPartners ) is a new lending product dedicated to small and medium - sized enterprises and institutional investors . Credimi mission is to make invoice financing for SME , faster , simpler and more transparent than any other available alternative . The Milan - based FinTech startup was founded in 2015 and in 2016 it was able to secure about EUR8 million in seed funding . Voverc : Started in 2015 , Voverc is a Rome - based startup with the mission to provide entrepreneurs and small businesses with the benefits of a professional telephone system of large corporates . The cloud - based cloud business phone system of Voverc enables you to be as professional on the go as you are in an office . So far , Voverc was able to raise more than EUR400 K in seed financing . Artemest is the online destination for the finest handmade decor . The startup 's mission is to re - establish the authentic concept of luxury based on heritage , uncompromised quality and craftsmanship . Based in Milan and launched in 2015 , the Artemest offers a unique shopping experience through curated editorial content and exceptional videos . Earlier this month , Artemest secured $ 1.2 million in seed funding . inVRsion : The Milan - based startup develops ultra - realistic and customized Virtual Reality experiences for b2b . inVRsion makes real - time , room - scale VR simulations , employing a combination of stunning realism and business intelligence tools . Founded in 2015 , the young company produces custom libraries of hyper - detailed 3D objects and environments , optimized for the VR experience . In 2016 the ambitous inVRsion team was able to raise EUR600 K in seed financing . Euklid is a Milan- and London - based FinTech startup with the mission of discovering and exploiting the potentials involved in applying Artificial Intelligence to Bitcoin and the Blockchain . At the heart of Euklid is a sophisticated AI engine capable of making independent trading decisions . Euklid was founded in 2015 and aims to become the bank for investors of the future . A few months ago , Euklid secured an undisclosed amount of seed funding , valuing the company at EUR10 million . ZesTrip is a Milan - based startup which created a marketplace where the Best Local Experts independently sell tours , dinners and things to do . Thanks to the booking and messaging features of ZesTrip , Travelers can choose a professional and book the perfect , tailor - made experience . TesTrip was founded in 2015 and was able to secure more than EUR100 K in seed funding . Scuter is a Rome - based startup which aims to change the game in urban mobility with its disruptive technology . Founded in 2015 , the smart e - scooter sharing service plans to make city mobility , simple , enjoyable and sustainable . Scuter was able to secure a seed funding of EUR100 K , a grant of EUR145 K and is currently doing a crowdfuning campaign which will end in March . YouDroop is an innovative B2B marketplace for suppliers and retailers who want buy and sell products via the retail fulfillment method dropshipping . The Turin - based startup was founded in 2015 and secured an undisclosed amound of seed and angel investments in 2015 and 2016 . Currently only available in Italian , YouDroop will launch a Spanish and English version by the end of next month . RiskApp serves the insurance industry by providing technological solutions for the sales process , for the underwriting and the technical inspection phase of the business process . Founded in 2015 , The Milan - based startup enables its clients to digitalize the claims process and increase the data collection to enhance the use of analytics . RiskApp wants to be your passionate , innovative , risk assessment company . By the way : If you 're a corporate or investor looking for exciting startups in a specific market for a potential investment or acquisition , check out our Startup Sourcing Service !