Tesla 's Fremont factory . Tesla When Tesla bought a decommissioned car factory in Fremont , California , Elon Musk transformed the old - fashioned , unionized plant into a much - vaunted " factory of the future " , where giant robots named after X - Men shape and fold sheets of metal inside a gleaming white mecca of advanced manufacturing . The appetite for Musk 's electric cars , and his promise to disrupt the carbon - reliant automobile industry , has helped Tesla 's value exceed that of both Ford and , briefly , General Motors ( GM ) . But some of the human workers who share the factory with their robotic counterparts complain of grueling work pressure they attribute to Musk 's aggressive production goals , and sometimes life - changing injuries . Ambulances have been called more than 100 times since 2014 for workers experiencing fainting spells , dizziness , seizures , abnormal breathing and chest pains , according to incident reports obtained by the Guardian . Hundreds more were called for injuries and other medical issues . In a phone interview about the conditions at the factory , which employs some 10,000 workers , the Tesla CEO conceded his workers had been " having a hard time , working long hours , and on hard jobs " , but said he cared deeply about their health and wellbeing . His company says its factory safety record has significantly improved over the last year . Musk also said that Tesla should not be compared to major US carmakers and that its market capitalization , now more than $ 50bn , is unwarranted . " I do believe this market cap is higher than we have any right to deserve , " he said , pointing out his company produces just 1% of GM 's total output . " We 're a money losing company , " Musk added . " This is not some situation where , for example , we are just greedy capitalists who decided to skimp on safety in order to have more profits and dividends and that kind of thing . It 's just a question of how much money we lose . And how do we survive ? How do we not die and have everyone lose their jobs ? " Tesla CEO Elon Musk . Scott Olson / Getty Images Musk 's account of the company 's approach differs from that of the 15 current and former factory workers who told the Guardian of a culture which they described as requiring working long hours under intense pressure , sometimes through pain and injury , in order to fulfill the CEO 's ambitious production goals . " I 've seen people pass out , hit the floor like a pancake and smash their face open , " said Jonathan Galescu , a production technician at Tesla . " They just send us to work around him while he 's still laying on the floor . " He was one of several workers who said they had seen co - workers collapse or be taken away in ambulances . " We had an associate on my line , he just kept working , kept working , kept working , next thing you know -- he just fell on the ground , " said Mikey Catura , a worker on the battery pack line . Richard Ortiz , another production worker , spoke admiringly of the high - tech shop floor . " It 's like you died and went to auto - worker heaven . " But he added : " Everything feels like the future but us . " Tesla sits at the juncture between a tech startup , untethered from the rules of the old economy , and a manufacturer that needs to produce physical goods . Nowhere is that contradiction more apparent than at the Tesla factory , where Musk 's bombastic projection that his company will make 500,000 cars in 2018 ( a 495% increase from 2016 ) relies as much on the sweat and muscle of thousands of human workers as it does on futuristic robots . Factory robots work on a Tesla Model S.via Youtube " From what I 've gathered , Elon Musk started Tesla kind of like an app startup and did n't realize that it is n't just nerds at a computer desk typing , " said one production worker , one of several who asked not to be identified by name . " You really start losing the startup feel when you have thousands of people doing physical labor . " In February , Tesla worker Jose Moran published a blog post that detailed allegations of mandatory overtime , high rates of injury and low wages at the factory , and revealed that workers were seeking to unionize with the United Auto Workers . Moran 's post shone a spotlight on a workforce that is almost entirely absent from Tesla 's official images of the factory . Michael Sanchez once had two dreams : to be an artist and a car service technician . He said he was " ecstatic " when he was recruited five years ago to work at Tesla , a company he believed was " part of the future . " Now Sanchez has two herniated discs in his neck , is on disability leave from work , and can no longer grip a pencil without pain . Tesla said that the employee 's injury occurred while he was installing a wheel , but Sanchez said it was caused by the years he spent working on Tesla 's assembly line . The cars he worked on were suspended above the line , and his job required looking up and working with his hands above his head all day . " You can make it through Monday , " Sanchez said . " You can make it through Tuesday . Come Wednesday you start to feel something . Thursday is pain . Friday is agonizing . Saturday you 're just making it through the day . " Tesla 's manufacturing practices appear to have been most dangerous in its earliest years of operations . The company does not dispute that its recordable incident rate ( TRIR ) , an official measure of injuries and illnesses that is reported to workplace safety regulators , was above the industry average between 2013 and 2016 . Tesla declined to release data over those four years , saying such information " does n't reflect how the factory operates today . " Tesla 's Model X faced three years of production delays . Harold Cunningham / Getty Images The company did release more recent data , which indicates its record of safety incidents went from slightly above the industry average in late 2016 , to a performance in the first few months of 2017 that was 32% better than average . The company said that its decision to add a third shift , introduce a dedicated team of ergonomics experts , and improvements to the factory 's " safety teams " account for the significant reduction in incidents since last year . Musk said safety was paramount at the company . " It 's incredibly hurtful and I think false for anyone to claim that I do n't care . " The CEO said his desk was " in the worst place in the factory , the most painful place " , in keeping with his management philosophy . " It 's not some comfortable corner office . " In early 2016 , he said , he slept on the factory floor in a sleeping bag " to make it the most painful thing possible . " " I knew people were having a hard time , working long hours , and on hard jobs . I wanted to work harder than they did , to put even more hours in , " he said . " Because that 's what I think a manager should do . " He added : " We 're doing this because we believe in a sustainable energy future , trying to accelerate the advent of clean transport and clean energy production , not because we think this is a way to get rich . " Tesla workers who spoke to the Guardian echoed this sense of pride and enthusiasm for the company 's mission . " We 're changing the world , " enthused Ortiz . " I ca n't wait for my granddaughter to one day go to class and say , ' My grandfather was in there . ' " But that pride did not erase what Ortiz described as a prevailing mood of " mass disappointment " over working conditions and what he alleged were avoidable work - related injuries . He recently lost the strength in his right arm , a situation he said was " scaring " him . " I want to use my arm when I 'm retired , " he added . Others described repetitive stress injuries they linked to working long hours . Before the company reduced the average time of a workday in October 2016 , workers said they routinely worked 12-hour shifts , six days a week . Tesla said the change had been " a success " , and resulted in a 50% decline in overtime hours . People wait in line outside a Tesla Motors store to place deposits on the electric car company 's mid - priced Model 3.REUTERS / Mario Anzuoni Sanchez and other workers said they believed more injuries occurred because , for years , the company did not take worker safety seriously , with some managers belittling their complaints and pressuring them to work through pain . When workers told managers about pain , Sanchez said they responded : " We all hurt . You ca n't man up ? " Alan Ochoa , another Tesla worker who is currently on a medical leave with an injury , alleged that superiors " put the production numbers ahead of the safety and wellbeing of the employees . " The company said that Ochoa and Sanchez are especially outspoken workers whose views do not represent the wider workforce . However , the Tesla spokesperson added : " In a factory of more than 10,000 employees , there will always be isolated incidents that we would like to avoid . " Complaints about working conditions at Tesla are not universal . " I 've got benefits , I 've got stocks , I 've got [ paid time off ] , " said a worker who has been at the company for about a year . " I thoroughly enjoy my work and I feel I 'm treated fairly . " Another worker , a temporary employee , said that he sees some teams in the factory doing group stretches in the morning to prevent injuries . However , some Tesla workers argue the company 's treatment of injured workers discourages them from reporting their injuries . If workers are assigned to " light duty " work because of an injury , they are paid a lower wage as well as supplemental benefits from workers ' compensation insurance , a practice that Tesla said was in line with other employers and California law . " I went from making $ 22 an hour to $ 10 an hour , " said a production worker , who injured his back twice while working at Tesla . " It kind of forces people to go back to work . " " No one wants to get a pay cut because they 're injured , so everyone just forces themselves to work through it , " added Adam Suarez , who has worked at the factory for about three years . Tesla said it was determined to further improve its safety standards . " While some amount of injuries is inevitable , our goal at Tesla is to have as close to zero injuries as possible and to become the safest factory in the auto industry worldwide , " the spokesperson said . Tesla Musk has a well - documented tendency to promise Mars and deliver the moon . His electric car company was , by his own admission , a gamble . Musk said starting a car manufacturer from scratch was likely " the worst way to earn money , honestly " , though he caveated that " maybe rockets are a bit worse " . " On a risk adjusted return basis , an auto company has to be the dumbest thing you could possibly start . " The company has succeeded at increasing its production rate every quarter . In the first three months of 2017 , the factory produced more than 25,000 cars - a Tesla record . To meet Musk 's goal for 2018 , they will have to quintuple that rate . " I think one of the major problems is that people at the top are making unrealistic quarterly goals , " said a worker on the battery pack line . Three workers described a management tactic of assigning a monetary value to every delay on the assembly line . " One time the robot came down and [ the supervisor ] came back screaming at us , ' That 's $ 18,000 , $ 20,0000 , $ 30,0000 , $ 50,000 because you guys ca n't get this done , ' " Gelascu recalled . Tesla argues the challenge in building vehicles from scratch with new production and manufacturing methods should not be underestimated , but that " nothing is more important " than protecting the health and safety of its workers . " We 're trying to do good for the world and we believe in doing the right thing , " Musk said . " And that extends to caring about the health and safety of everyone at the company . " It 's a more humanistic tone than the one he strikes with investors . " You really ca n't have people in the production line itself . Otherwise you 'll automatically drop to people speed , " he told investors in an earnings call last year . " There 's still a lot of people at the factory , but what they 're doing is maintaining the machines , upgrading them , dealing with anomalies . But in the production process itself there essentially would be no people . " Get the latest Tesla stock price here .