This spring , Microsoft 's infamous Zune will sing its final song . Come March , users who purchased Zune Marketplace music prior to its replacement in 2012 by Xbox Music will no longer be able to listen to those DRM files . ( Fortunately , Microsoft will let users download non - DRM mp3 versions of their songs , at music.microsoft.com . ) Zune , launched just over 10 years ago , stands as one of Microsoft 's few true failures . Despite the tens of millions of dollars it spent across multiple marketing campaigns , Microsoft discontinued its line of portable media players after six sluggish years . Even in its heyday , Zune struggled to capture even one - eighth of the iPod 's market share . Why did Zune , backed by the Microsoft tech juggernaut , fail to find its foothold ? One problem was timing . When Zune debuted , Apple had captured nearly the entire mp3 market and would announce the first - generation iPhone -- which would lead the smartphone market to quash standalone mp3 players altogether -- just months later . But unfavorable timing can be forgiven if your product offers new features that set it apart . And there lies the second problem that doomed Zune : It just was n't different enough from the iPod . Microsoft executive Robbie Bach , who headed Zune , later called it a " chasing " product , which , he said , gave customers little motivation to swap their iPods for Microsoft 's offering . How could Microsoft have avoided this ? How could any company now or in the future ? The answer lies in . . . proper product planning . Before you build your technology product -- or any product , really -- take these four steps to avoid spending millions developing something customers do n't want : The first challenge to a new product is n't conceptualizing the product itself : It 's choosing a problem to solve . If you ca n't articulate the customer pain point you want to alleviate , in one or two sentences , return to the drawing board until you and other stakeholders can . At UnitedHealth Group , for instance , Unmesh Srivastava , director of innovation and transformation , understands that costs are a primary problem for healthcare consumers . " Every year , the United States spends trillions of dollars -- approximately 17.5 percent of its gross domestic product -- on healthcare expenses , " Srivastava told me recently . " To address crisis - level costs , our Optum Care program has introduced innovations in revenue cycle management , care delivery and healthcare - cost containment . "   The second challenge product developers face is not understanding whose problem the product might solve . A great invention with poor market fit might be a revolutionary discovery , but it 'll flop at release . Microsoft dug Zune 's grave by inadequately identifying a problem for Zune to solve . While Zune had some capabilities the iPod did n't , potential users -- many of whom had already bought an iPod -- simply did n't think the product addressed a pressing need .   Although Microsoft prototyped Zune , it evidently did n't do so adequately . If it had , Microsoft would have learned prior to release that consumers did n't truly value Zune 's features . The company assumed they did , and that was its downfall . There 's nothing like a prototype to ferret out risky assumptions . Create one before you begin the product 's actual design or development , to level stakeholders ' expectations and limit scope creep . Once the prototype is finished , get it in front of target audience members to find out if it does , indeed , address the problem you identified earlier . Yeti , my company , recently prototyped a user engagement app for PlayStation . By exploring different user flows and gathering feedback , we found that the prototype gave us the confidence and direction we needed to continue the product 's development . Prototypes do n't just put risky assumptions under the spotlight -- they also shine a light on the product 's market .   With Zune , Microsoft targeted the high end of the iPod 's market , hoping to capture users wanting more in a portable media player . Instead , interestingly enough , Zune displaced Microsoft partners ' comparatively low - end PlaysForSure devices -- effectively eating its own market share . So , test your own prototype with various demographics . By learning exactly who might buy your product , you can learn more about these consumers ' needs , forecast a price point and gain insights about marketing channels . Use this information to plan future iterations : Prioritize features desired by the product 's primary users , and create a secondary list of features that might help broaden the product 's user base . The final step in product planning -- road mapping -- is really a series of steps . Road maps focus vision and constrain actions , as product development proceeds .   Begin by creating an agile road map . This document will typically offer a one- or two - week plan for completing a product 's most important features -- those desired by individuals within the product 's primary market . Next , architect a release road map . By bundling multiple agile road maps , the release road map will plan for the next release and prescribe the agile sprints needed to get there .   Finally , develop a product life cycle road map . This long - term road map will shift over time to account for market conditions , business needs and user feedback . It 's comprised of multiple release road maps , mapping a product from ground zero to versions 2 , 3 and so on . A product road map template can help you get started . Every company , from entrepreneurial startup to corporate giants such as Microsoft , feels pressure to rush its products to market . First - mover advantage helps , resources are precious and profitability ca n't come soon enough . But when users do n't buy the product , being first wo n't matter ; saving a few thousand dollars by moving up the release date wo n't matter . The only thing that will matter is whether customers believe your product solves an important problem for them better than other solutions on the market . Zune may soon be gone , but for product developers , its lessons wo n't soon be forgotten . Tony Scherba is the president and a founding partner of Yeti LLC ( https://yeti.co/ ) , a product - focused development and design studio in San Francisco . Scherba has been building software since his teen years and has worked on digit ...