When you 're in charge of an entire company , a little bit of stress is the appropriate response . Entrepreneurs are often burdened by poor sleep , tense shoulders , and stress headaches on a regular basis . Fortunately , there are more than enough mobile apps out there designed to get the heart rate down and improve your daily life . We asked five entrepreneurs which apps they use to make their day - to - day a little less stressful . Take a look at the list below and get your stress under control : I like to use the Breathe app on my Apple Watch . Sometimes , a simple cure for stress is to simply breathe . Meditation has been proven to calm your mind , and this app helps you to do just that . It reminds me each day to stop , take a deep breath , close my eyes for a minute and relax . In addition to the series of breathing guides , it also gives you gentle taps to help you focus . Simple , but effective . - Jordan Gurrieri of Orbit Path Microsoft 's OneNote app has been a life - saver . No matter where I am , I can jot down a few thoughts , to - do lists , or scheduling details and they 're accessible to me everywhere . It 's great for peace of mind . - Steven Buchwald of Buchwald & Associates Search engine optimization is a stressful industry to work in , and it 's sometimes difficult hitting internal SEO objectives and deadlines while also maintaining a fun work environment . I pay for the premium version of Pandora and have it play in the office while we 're working . It helps lighten the mood , and when we need some comic relief , I put on an obscure station like traditional Chinese or the Christmas rap station . - Chris Rodgers of Colorado SEO Pros Meditation has been proven to increase productivity and reduce stress . I 've been using Headspace for almost a year . Many of the guests we interview on the podcast I run use it too . I swear by it so much that I bought it for family members for the holidays . Being able to take 10 minutes to focus on myself is one thing I can not give up . That time is sacred . - Steven Picanza of Latin & Code Running a business in New York City also means running around New York City . I would n't be able to get around town without Gett . Not only can I book my rides in advance but they also have $ 10 flat rides all over Manhattan . Knowing I can make it to a meeting with time to spare definitely alleviates my stress . - Steph Jill Cartin of Socialfly NY FounderSociety is an invitation - only organization comprised of ambitious startup founders and business owners . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .