Sydney - based human resources ( HR ) benefits and payroll platform Employment Hero has announced a partnership with ANZ that will see its HR technology rolled out to ANZ 's small business customers .   The partnership will mean ANZ business customers gain free access to the platform early this year .   It comes after Employment Hero raised $ 4.5 million last year from VCs including AirTree , OneVentures and AMP Ventures . The startups founder , Ben Thompson , told Startup Daily last November that the funding served as validation of the company 's proposition to Australian businesses . " We 've made significant progress in a relatively short amount of time . Our subscriber base grew over 300 percent in the first 9 months of 2016 , " Thompson said at the time . Speaking about the new partnership , Thompson said NZ approached him looking to use the platform solve a " major pain point " around their customers managing employees . Currently , 1,000 different businesses use the HR platform , with the startup stating it is on track to increase this number to 10,000 by 2020 , helped by the ANZ partnership . Founded in 2014 , Employment Hero offers businesses a cloud platform to help HR staff manage their employee performances , contracts , attendance and rostering duties .   The platform has benefits for employees too , thanks to a reward system offering prizes such as discounts on gym memberships , electricity and gas , cars , mortgages and phone plans through brand partnerships . The startup said there 's also potential that ANZ utilises Employment Hero 's data to inform improvements on the bank 's credit approval model . " There are a huge range of options going forward however the thing we 're most excited about is providing SMEs and their employees with financial wellness and access to the best employee benefits , " said Thompson . " Obviously we also have some great opportunities to leverage data in new , more powerful ways . " ANZ 's Managing Director of Corporate and Commercial Banking , Mark Hand , said the platform will help support the " complex " process for employers running an SMB . " Staying on top of the administration can not only cost them money and time , but can also take business owners away from growing their business , " he said . " This platform contains everything an employer needs to recruit , manage , pay and engage their workforce in a simple cloud solution . "   A focus on developing Australian HR tech sprouted towards the end of last year , with the introduction of Australia 's first HR accelerator , Human Capital .   The accelerator works with large Australian corporates to run 12-week programs to help fuel innovation in the sector .