Viv is an AI assistant cofounded by the creators of Siri : Dag Kittlaus , Adam Cheyer and Chris Brigham . The trio founded Viv in 2012 after Siri was acquired by Apple in 2010 .   It allows developers to plug into and create an intelligent , conversational interface for anything . By connecting to a huge , global network , the founders say Viv will be able to perform a potentially endless list of tasks .   The startup raised $ 30 million in three rounds from four different investors , before being sold to Samsung in October 2016 for an undisclosed sum .   Asteria claims its product is ' the world 's first AI companion that you carry with you ' . The pocket - sized device , set to ship in spring 2017 , ' sees what you see , hears what you hear , takes in life as you do , and gets smarter all along the way ' . Cofounders Nathan Ross and Dan Gailey hope to encourage a large community of developers to build on top of the device , creating apps and features to boost its abilities further . The startup was founded in July 2016 . No funding information is currently available .    Amy , built by x.ai , is described as an ' AI powered personal assistant for scheduling meetings ' . When you get a meeting request , if you cc in amy@x.ai , the AI will coordinate a time you can make with your guest for you . It costs $ 39 a month , or it 's free for five uses each month . x.ai was founded in April 2014 and has raised $ 34.3 million in three rounds from 11 investors . Cleo describes its app as ' an intelligent assistant for your money ' . Its AI integrates with your bank accounts to deliver relevant insights into your finances and help you save more cash . The startup was founded in November 2015 by Alexandra Wozniak and Barnaby Hussey - Yeo , as part of that year 's Entrepreneur First cohort . It is currently in public beta . Unloop is billed as a ' personal lifestyle enhancement AI ' by founder Noach Ben - Haim . The idea is for Unloop 's AI to learn about the user , build up a personality profile , then use this to suggest new activities , experiences , places and connections - helping people to break out of their monotonous daily routine . The startup launched in March 2016 , with a beta version of the app set to launch in November 2016 .