Entrepreneur is on the ground at SXSW . Watch our coverage for highlights throughout the festival . Some of the most interesting ideas you read today about transportation are topics the   Connected Car Council -- and its network of automakers , entrepreneurs , technologists , mayors and policymakers -- have been talking about for years . This year 's annual SXSW gathering , dubbed the C3 Smart Mobility Showcase ( and planned for Saturday afternoon ) , focuses on how emerging technologies will fit into the context of cities . Entrepreneur caught up with Doug Newcomb , the president of C3 , to learn about how transportation technology is evolving and what might be ahead . A few years ago , having cities involved in an event like yours seemed almost novel . And now it seems like a given . Have we all grown up ?   What I 've seen , to use a sort of cliched phrase , is a sort of breaking down of the silos . We 're seeing the stakeholders talking to each other and that 's key -- whether it 's the automotive and technology companies or the people from policy or research and media -- and really get this networking effect . It definitely is maturing . A lot of the pieces are already in place , where someone may have the technology and it 's just a matter of connecting the dots . So I think that 's where C3 plays a role in getting these people together . Your sessions reflect the conversations swirling around transportation at that moment . What stands out in those conversations right now ? Technology is disrupting transportation , and technology has opened the door for entrepreneurs . One of the things we 'll be showing at the Smart Mobility Showcase is Chariot , a crowdsourced transportation platform , which was acquired by Ford in September . [ The founder ] grew up in Brooklyn and started this business based on these things called " dollar vans . " Guys drive around , and for a dollar they 'll give you a ride . He developed Chariot based on that concept , but instead of trolling the streets , he put it on an app . They 're really providing last - mile transportation . He filled a need . There was just a story a couple weeks ago about Argo AI , an artificial intelligence company that was just bought by Ford for a billion dollars . It had been around since November . That 's a little different case , of course . But these entrepreneurs have this technology and it 's getting scooped up . You 'll definitely see more car companies and others making these investments . And there are going to be these profound changes . You see a lot of transportation solutions . Some survive , some do n't . With the most promising ones , what stands out?Jaguar Land Rover has a startup incubator , and I was on the selection committee for the inaugural class . There were two students who created a parking app leveraging existing cameras , like the camera that shows the parking lot at Rice University stadium , so that you could see , " OK , I 'm not going to go on that side of the street . " That 's what I mean by connecting the dots . It 's filling the gaps and using existing ideas or technology to provide a service . Cities have realized that startups can keep them nimble -- especially when money is limited for infrastructure spending . But linking public infrastructure can be tricky to execute , yes ? I think that 's the maturation , in a sense , of the technology .   I do n't profess to be an expert in public transportation , but what I 've seen is there 's an entrenched way of doing things . It is a certain amount of headwind , in a way , when you 're dealing with public - private partnerships . It 's going to be really interesting with the new administration that they want to invest in infrastructure . That 's going to be more of the bricks and mortar and concrete and roads , but hopefully there 's going to be some overlap . And if you 're going to build new roads and bridges and airports and all that , it 's time to rethink -- I feel , I think a lot of people feel -- how we 're going to do that to make it more efficient . What are a few really critical problems being addressed right now ? Traffic and parking cause such inefficiencies , like fuel waste and accidents . Traffic deaths went up for the second year in a row . Cities ca n't build their way out of this problem . I 've heard Mayor Adler [ Steve Adler , the mayor of Austin ] say that the thing that people come here for , quality of life , could be lost . Cities like Austin are going to have significant growth . Let 's keep them unclogged so goods and services can move more freely . Bosch is showing a new technology at our event leveraging existing technology , ultrasonic sensors -- the same sensors that tell you that you 're going to back into something and measure parking spaces -- and connecting that to a telematics unit in the car and to the cloud . [ This technology can guide drivers through traffic jams and minimize disruption to street traffic due to parallel parking ] . There are major pain points and I think technology can help with these . What 's an opportunity to be seized ? What 's untapped as of yet ? Big data is still a goldmine in all of this . With self - driving cars or some of these mobility apps , you start to see patterns where people go , how often they go there , at what times . I think that it 's kind of apparent but it 's still unexplored in a way . I think we 'll see how that data can used . And there are huge business opportunities for people involved in the space . What 's the one thing you 'd like people to get from your event but also from what 's happening in transportation right now ? Technology is going to create a new set of circumstances for cities , for societies and for economies . It 's like the internet 20 years ago . It 's always scary . You do n't know what 's going to happen . But it 's exciting .    Linda Lacina is the managing editor at Entrepreneur.com . Her work has appeared in the Wall Street Journal , Smart Money , Dow Jones MarketWatch and Family Circle . Email her at llacina@entrepreneur.com . Follow her at @lindalacina on Twitt ...