As the Tech Nation 2017 report went out yesterday the UK government , startup founders and venture capitalists have once again highlighted the importance of regional " clusters " to help grow the sector across the whole of the UK , and not just in London . The report , which details the current state of the UK tech industry , shows that new clusters are popping up around the UK , adding to the successes of companies like DeepMind in Cambridge , Skyscanner in Edinburgh , and Sage in Newcastle . It goes on to say : " The rapid rate of growth of tech sectors in the regions is creating exciting and unexpected concentrations of tech companies . For example Bournemouth and Poole has the highest concentration of high growth firms in terms of annual turnover ; while Dundee has seen the highest percentage growth ( up 67 percent ) in jobs created , second only to London ( up 95 percent ) . " The report also notes that UK tech workers are paid on average 44 percent more than non - tech workers and that the distribution of these jobs is growing , with salaries in Newcastle , Sheffield and Leeds seeing particularly strong growth , with salaries rising by over 25 percent in the past five years .   In a foreword for the report UK Prime Minister Theresa May noted that it is the responsibility of government to " deliver a high - skilled , high paid Britain where opportunity is spread across every community , not just the traditional areas of London and the South East " . However the idea of a Northern Powerhouse , and that the tech sector is given enough attention outside of the M25 , has often led to scepticism . Although the various clusters are growing , London still dominates most metrics . For example , digital turnover in London for 2015 was PS56 billion , with the nearest cluster being Reading at PS12.5 billion . What the report does show is that 2016 saw more investment from venture capital and private equity funds going to companies ' from outside of London than within . Based on data from Pitchbook for all venture capital and private equity deals in 2016 , PS4.6 billion ( 68 percent ) was invested in companies from regions outside of London , as opposed to PS2.2 billion ( 32 percent ) in London - based companies . Of the regions , Edinburgh - based companies brought in the most investment in 2016 at PS159 million , then Cambridge at PS153 million , then Bristol and Bath at PS109 million .   Karen Bradley , secretary of state for culture , media and sports echoed the party line on the importance of distributing this investment across the UK . Speaking at the launch event for the report yesterday she said : " Money is pouring in from around the world and our task is to spread it around even further . " Wendy Tan White , who is currently a general partner at Entrepreneur First , takes a positive view of companies like chip designer Arm Holdings being acquired overseas , saying that it could be the UK 's " Intel moment " . " That liquidity really pushes investment into the cluster , " she said during a panel session yesterday . " There will no doubt be a massive influx of investment now around Cambridge because of that . With Skyscanner in Edinburgh , I know those guys are investing and really holding companies up there . For an ecosystem to work for young startups you need a set of mentors that have existed through every stage . " Saul Klein , a venture capitalist at Index Ventures agreed , stating that " exits create ecosystems " . Echoing White 's comments regarding an Intel effect , he was referring to the theory that a successful tech company can infuse capital and talent into an ecosystem and create more companies in the long term . The same effect can be seen more recently in the way that PayPal alumni Elon Musk , Ken Howery , Luke Nosek , Max Levchin and Peter Thiel went on to either build ( Tesla and Palantir ) or invest in ( Facebook ) some of the biggest tech companies of the past decade .   The flip side of this though is that a lot of long term value is removed from the UK economy , as these companies profits end up going to US investors . As Giles Palmer , CEO of UK startup Brandwatch said : " I would focus on this idea that we create lots of [ intellectual property ] IP here and have great researchers but a lot of those guys end up creating value for the shareholders of American companies . " So I would encourage all of us to think about how we can build UK companies and on being a UK entrepreneur . Let 's take IP and talent and create British businesses that retain the IP and value as much as possible for as long as possible . " CEO of Sage Stephen Kelly added : " This is not binary , it is not London and the rest , we want all boats rising . The better London does , the better the UK will do . "