Any parent will tell you that being the human taxicab can be exhausting , stressful , and allows for little time for errands .   To help with daily duties , Phoenix families will soon be able to receive a little help from Waymo , the former Google self - driving car project , and let the car do the driving while mom or dad sit back and catch up with the kids . Today , Waymo announced an early rider program and the first public trial of their self - driving cars . Residents in the Phoenix metropolitan area can apply to use Waymo 's fleet of self - driving vehicles to do everything they would do on a daily basis . Waymo will be adding 500 self - driving Chrysler Pacifica vans to the fleet with a total of 600 on the road . But do n't worry , in the initial stage of the program , Waymo will have a test driver at the wheel . The company 's goal is to obtain riders ' feedback such as rider experience , how they would use a self - driving car and learn how to shape the future of how our vehicles will work . In the latest report The State of Autonomous Vehicles , by Brian Solis , Principal Analyst at Altimeter , there are over 22 automakers and 34 hardware / software companies helping to develop self - driving cars . " 2017 is set to push us even closer to science fiction , " Solis said . " And with each new startup , partnership , acquisition and technological breakthrough , we are witnessing a transportation renaissance that will affect every industry . So buckle your seat belt and get ready ; it 's going to be an exciting ride . " To date , Waymo has racked up almost 3 million miles of autonomous driving to date , over 1 billion miles of simulated driving in 2016 alone , they 've developed four generations of self - driving vehicles and test drove in four cities . For Phoenix metropolitan - area residents , Waymo is looking to learn from people with diverse transportation needs and they can apply for the early rider program here .   Earlier this year , our team rode in a Waymo and here is what we thought about it . Here 's a closer look at the Waymo Car during their test run in Phoenix with the Governor of Arizona and interview with Jennifer Haroon , Waymo 's head of business , about the tech under the hood .  