So , 2017 is here and it 's time to look to the new year . Hey look , that rhymes -- poetry and startup business nous in one sweet article , are n't you lucky ? Anyway , here is some top - notch startup advice from three startup founders about how to stay productive for the next 12 months . Sediarus Perrotta , the founder of Shelf , an information curation platform that allows businesses to capture , find , and share content , says : " In our fast paced , always on society , it is all too easy to get lost in the digital noise of our multi tasking lives . There is a cognitive cost to task switching that consists of losing focus and increasing stress levels that has been proven by renowned MIT neuroscientist , Eric Miller . " My biggest productivity boosts comes from creating two hour blocks of time in which I log out of all my online accounts , turn off my cell phone , disconnect the Wifi , and put on noise canceling head phones so I can just focus on the one most important thing that must get done . " It 's absolutely incredible how much better your work can be when all the distractions are eliminated and you know you have the time to work uninterrupted . " Chris Smith , the co - founder of Curaytor -- a digital marketing platform provides software -- says less is more and can be made possible by doing a digital cleanse : " Every year on Black Friday I do a digital cleanse that includes using Unroll.me to unsubscribe from all the unnecessary email lists I am on . I also unlike and unfollow all Facebook Pages and Profiles I no longer care to see updates from which includes removing myself and block the ability to be added back to as many Facebook Groups as I can . " After I delete every app from my phone that I can , then turn off every notification on my phone that I can -- this includes 100 percent of the red badge app icons . " Normally , I prune my Twitter List by several 100 accounts but this year I actually uninstalled Twitter from my phone all the way . I only find myself checking trending topics these days which are nearly always a distraction . This actually takes several hours to complete , if you are meticulous , but the ROI is infinite . Your spouse , kids , co - workers , and even pets , will all notice and appreciate it . " Ethan Beute , founder of Bombbomb , an app that records and sends video by email , urges entrepreneurs to de - clutter their inboxes : " Save time in your inbox and get better replies and results by talking instead of typing - by using simple webcam videos in some of your emails . " On average , we speak four times faster than we type . And in video , we 're communicating more clearly and connecting more effectively than through plain , typed - out text . When your email has extensive detail , subtlety , nuance , emotional tone , or other things that take a long time to write , consider just hitting record and explaining it by speaking . I use BombBomb 's Gmail plug in to do this every day . "