As Bitcoin is again breaking the $ 1,000 value threshold , there 's no telling where the cryptocurrency can go from here . It has proven to be more stable than many of the world 's economies and serves as a way for humanitarians to do some good . In 2017 , it is already clear Bitcoin will be a major disruptor . But let 's take a look back and see which industries have already felt the power of Bitcoin . We 'll start with the obvious one here . Bitcoin has majorly disrupted the banking industry , allowing people to access a money that 's not controlled by a central government office . Instead of needing a bank account , people all over the world can send and receive Bitcoin from their mobile phones . In the early days of Bitcoin , financial experts called the cryptocurrency a threat , but attitudes have changed drastically . Even major banks like Citi have embraced Bitcoin , saying that it brings the opportunity for true innovation . Over the past year and a half , several global financial institutions , such as MasterCard , BNP Paribas , Visa and J.P. Morgan , invested in blockchain startups . Some experts suggest that Bitcoin could save the banking industry as much as $ 20 billion by eliminating middle - man costs . These big firms realize that Bitcoin can be an entry into emerging markets , where people often do n't have bank accounts -- but they do have mobile phones . Humanitarian efforts in countries with nearly worthless currency have realized that Bitcoin is a valuable asset . Among the charitable organizations accepting Bitcoin : Human Rights Foundation , the American Red Cross , Electronic Frontier Foundation and the United Way . The very same thing that many people fear about Bitcoin is a strength to those in countries with uncertain financial climates : Bitcoin is n't led at the whim of a governmental office . Bitcoin , in many cases , is more stable than currencies like the Venezuelan bolivar , allowing people to buy Amazon gift cards to purchase necessary goods and supplies . Embracing Bitcoin has been a win - win for charitable organizations : they 're able to tap into a more affluent and often younger donor base , while people receiving Bitcoin have a donation not tied to their country 's volatile currency . Donation via cryptocurrency also allows donors to be anonymous , if they wish . Last year , The Water Promise ( a nonprofit working to provide reliable access to water in impoverished countries ) received $ 23,000 in anonymous donations from the Bitcoin community on Reddit . The organization noted that Bitcoin donations have funded several projects over the past two years . Blockchain startups have already started to disrupt the $ 15 billion music industry . Last year saw the rise of companies such as Ujo Music and Stem , making it easier for artists to get paid by fans for their work uploaded to YouTube , Spotify and other streaming sites . By using a Bitcoin - based payment model , fans can directly pay artists for their music , without record labels and producers taking a huge cut . Instead of being at the mercy of a record label , many musicians today are managing themselves and going peer - to - peer for payment . Using blockchain technology can give artists better control of their earnings . Artists want to be paid quickly and fairly for their work , something these startups are working for . Stem gives musicians an efficient framework for content creation , distribution and revenue generation . Even Mark Cuban is a fan ( and investor ) . Through Ujo Music , artists can create a digital wallet for fans to send Ether ( the digital currency of the Ethereum blockchain ) if the music has their toes tapping . Other startups , such as Kashcoin and PeerTracks , are also using blockchain technology to foster a better deal for artists and a deeper peer - to - peer payment system . Much like other industries , a focus on Bitcoin and blockchain technology within the music technology is aimed at cutting out the expensive middlemen . With Bitcoin , you can step into some of the world 's most popular casinos -- without leaving your house . Bitcoin casinos have done what Caesar 's Palace ca n't : truly offer you an online gambling experience . As the U.S. has heavily regulated online gaming , the digital currency is fueling a boom . One of the biggest of these online gaming portals ? Dragon 's Tale , a role - playing game that uses Bitcoin instead of chips . In 2013 , a study showed that at least half of all Bitcoin transactions were related to gambling . One of the earliest popular Bitcoin gambling sites , SatoshiDice , saw as many as 12,400 bets per day in 2013 . In the first three years of Dragon 's Tale , players earned jackpots totalling more than 406,000 Bitcoin ( roughly $ 44 million ) . In the near future the online gambling industry could easily be disrupted even more by the rise of Bitcoin .  