ASX - listed data intelligence company Invigor has announced today its acquisition of Singapore - based Sprooki in an all - scrip - or all - shares - deal worth a total consideration of $ 10 million . Four million dollars ' worth of Invigor shares will be issued to Sprooki vendors , with a further $ 6 million worth to come subject to performance milestones . According to a statement , Sprooki is expected to add more than $ 2 million in revenue to Invigor in the next financial year , with a further $ 3 million per year to be generated in " revenue synergies " . As part of the deal , Sprooki cofounders Claire Mula and Michael Gethen will take senior leadership roles at Mula ; to be based in Sydney , Mula will be appointed COO and an executive director , with Gethen to oversee the company 's Asian operations from Singapore . Sprooki chairman Bob McKinnon , former Commonwealth Bank and Westpac CIO , will also become non - executive chairman at Invigor . The startup had announced upon appointing McKinnon last year that it would be looking to raise up to $ 7.5 million in funding ahead of an ASX listing . Invigor chairman and CEO , Gary Cohen called the acquisition a " transformational " one for Invigor thanks to " depth of talent " the startup will bring to Invigor 's board and and management ranks . It comes , he believes , at a time when bricks and mortar retailers are most in need of its solutions . " With the imminent arrival of Amazon , something that has been much publicised in Australia recently , we have witnessed a surge of interest in data - driven digital solutions that can address loyalty , pricing , and shopper behaviour , " he said . " With the Sprooki acquisition , we will now have the necessary range of solutions to provide the antidote that these enterprise and SME customers need to compete more effectively in an increasingly competitive retail environment . " Mula added that the two companies have complementary products , and therefore are together stronger and " aligned to unlock opportunities from existing and new customers and markets " . She said , " The growth that can be achieved from combining our services and rolling them out across three large regions , together with our joint R&D , will be a major benefit to our customers and their shoppers . " Founded in 2011 , Sprooki 's data - driven platform allows retailers to engage and transact with customers through their connected devices , also allowing them to capture customer data in order to provide shoppers with a more personalised experience . Sprooki allows retailers to send shoppers location - based messages , vouches , customised product recommendations , and loyalty cards and other rewards . The startup has seen significant growth across Southeast Asia , where it 's used by major shopping centres including Far East Square in Singapore and Crescent Mall in Vietnam , and brands such as Forever 21 and Marks & Spencer . It saw its first deployment in Australia at the Manly Wharf Precinct in Sydney last year . The importance of mobile in - store is strong : a report released by PwC last year found that almost 75 percent of almost 23,000 shoppers surveyed across 25 countries reported using a mobile device while in - store , with the most common uses being to compare prices with competitors , research products , access a coupon , or check reviews .