Telstra has appointed Julie Trell as the new head of its accelerator program muru - D , following the departure of cofounder and former chief Annie Parker to new Sydney startup hub Lighthouse . Most recently the founder of Playful Purpose , Trell has worked in a variety of roles , including a long stint at Salesforce . Philip Jones , acting chief technology officer at Telstra , said Trell 's diversity of experience and leadership made her the right fit for the role . " Julie is excited to get started at Telstra , to get involved at muru - D and help take the program to the next level and , through that work , continue building the startup ecosystem both in Australia and globally . " " I can not wait to see the positive influence and inspiration Julie will have within muru - D , the wider startup ecosystem , and across Telstra as a whole . " Trell , who will be relocating to Sydney from San Francisco , said she is excited to work with Telstra and its growing family of startups to create " a uniquely Australasian entrepreneurial culture for the digital age " .   " Companies like Telstra realise that a new generation of workers want real social impact and strong values to be a part of daily life in how and where they work . " It comes after the accelerator announced the eight startups taking part in its fourth Sydney intake last week . Entrepreneur in residence Ben Sand said updates to the muru - D program helped attract " more ambitious and more developed " companies to this intake . The accelerator updated its funding model late last year , switching to an uncapped SAFE note . Sand said , " We also actively hunted for more mature companies , who traditionally would be less likely to consider an accelerator . " " This cohort demonstrates a depth of experience , innovation , and global ambition that is a level above anything we have seen before , in line with kuru - d 's vision to keep evolving the program and attract the best talent . " The startups selected are :   Agriwebb - a platform looking to transform livestock production , with 800 farmers already on board Alta - Alta is seeking to build the first long play , multiple player game for virtual reality Bron.tech - wants to make blockchain as easy to use as a coupon at the grocery store Flobox - making it easy for small businesses to compete with bigger companies when it comes to social media marketing Flurosat - uses hyper spectral cameras on drones and nano satellites to look at the health of crops GeoInteractive - like Google 's Street View , but for underground , with maps created through a hardware product similar to a GoPro Patch'd - a medical sensor allowing real - time patient monitoring from anywhere in the world Snooper - a crowdsourcing app that sees shoppers collect in - store data and share their experiences with brands in real time