Startupbootcamp has been busy since its arrival down under was announced by LaunchVic last August . The organisation , a global network of industry - focused accelerators founded in Copenhagen in 2010 , received $ 600,000 from the Victorian government 's startup body to help it open a hardware lab in Melbourne and fund the launch of an accelerator program this year . As it gears up to open the doors to the lab and applications for the accelerator , Startupbootcamp has been working to immerse itself in the Melbourne startup landscape through other events , for example partnering with facilities management provider Spotless Group to host an IoT and datatech hackathon at the MCG last November . To further its focus on the Internet of Things , Startupbootcamp partnered with the City of Melbourne to host IoT & Data FastTrack for Melbourne Knowledge Week last Friday . With the City of Melbourne looking to establish Melbourne as Australia 's ' smartest ' city , the event saw local startups pitch to a panel of industry experts and network to seek out opportunities for collaborative . For Trevor Townsend , managing director of Startupbootcamp , the involvement of the City of Melbourne was key ; rather than startups working in silos , he believes more must be done to drive cross - collaboration and connect startups to the right people who can help them develop and deploy real - world solutions that will improve the way cities operate . " The significance of having a large city council supporting the ecosystem can not be underestimated . Startups focused on Smart Cities solutions need input from the city to ensure that solutions are viable and meet the city 's needs , " he said . " Policy makers should be supporting startups , as both an economic stimulus through new job creation and as well as a way to get new and innovative solutions to citizens and visitors . " Dr Jackie Watts , a City of Melbourne councillor and chair of the Knowledge City portfolio , said the City recognises that startups are central to ensuring Melbourne 's " knowledge economy " grows and thrives . " In sustaining the ' liveability ' of our city we encourage talented knowledge sector workers , and investment tends to follow this talent . It is crucial that we consult with the startup community to better understand the core needs of those with the talent and the drive to start up a businesses in Melbourne , " she said . Consultations with the startup community are becoming increasingly important , with the City gearing up to deliver its Startup Action Plan . This plan , Watts said , is being designed to foster a supportive and inclusive business culture , accelerate innovation , and provide access to municipal data . On this front , the City of Melbourne already runs an Open Data platform , which boasts almost 100 data sets for anyone to use ; such data sets include a 24 hour pedestrian counting system , which aims to help the City and users understand pedestrian activity in busy locations . Among the startups presenting on Friday was SofiHub , a smart device using sensors to learn what is normal activity for a person in their own home , allowing it to detect abnormal activity and alert loved ones of potential emergencies , and GoGet , the car sharing platform that is now working to develop a fleet of cars that provide disabled individuals with an easier , smarter mode of transport . Also pitching were CyclePort , a smart bike sharing system with electric bike charging capacity ; muru - D grad SkyGrid , a platform looking to simplify the process of servicing and repairing utilities through an equipment monitoring service that ensures technicians arrive with the correct tools for the job , even before a fault has even impacted the user ; and Augmented Reality Experts , developing a platform allowing anyone to create their own AR content .