Investment company 88 mph recently broke a long silence by announcing an investment into flight booking and management app for small businesses , Ahoy . Though the LinkedIn post , written by the 88 mph founder Kresten Buch , detailed the investment , it did n't have all of the details . Ventureburn reached out to Buch to ask a few quick questions on why 88 mph invested in Ahoy , the amount invested , as well as any future plans the company may have . Ventureburn : How much was the exact investment ? Otherwise , can you give a ballpark figure ? Kresten Buch : 88 mph went in together with four other investors . Our contribution was approx R1.5-million . VB : Do you know what Ahoy will be using the investment for ? KB : They are building a booking.com style engine for flights . Busy business travellers need simple one - tap booking , so they do n't need to bother with 3d - secure or filling in credit card info all the time . They should be able to make changes and cancellation in app . The ability to create bookings for others as a team leader sending staff around the world , check in on your seat preference , make sure miles are updated . Basically , things leisure travellers do n't care much about , but when you fly more than 3 - 4 times a month then people care ... all these things take time to build with a reliable support system around it . VB : Why invest in Ahoy over its competitors ? KB : Corporate travel management services like BCD and Carlson Wagonlit are built for corporates with sophisticated travel rules and staff that plan far in advance . Fast - moving companies and expansion teams do n't have time for this process . Ahoy has teams from big companies who are supposed to use these traditional services , but for these expansion teams , the responsiveness and flexibility matter a lot , so they use Ahoy instead . On the other hand , you have online booking engines like Expedia or Travelstart . They are more flexible , but target mostly tourists , so are n't able to offer services around the bookings , like easy changes , cancellations , check - ins , miles admin , and 24-hour support . VB : Are there any other investments on the horizon for 88mpb ? KB : Everything we look seriously at comes via an intro from people we know well . The most interesting investments are where I 've followed the development of the startup closely for quite a while before they want us to go in . We do n't have resourses to explore the very [ early ] stage companies that require a lot of help .