A year ago , after closing my first startup , I attended one of those conferences that you 're supposed to attend . There were a lot of old friends there , folks who I had n't seen in a while , and there was the usual collection of panels and panelists , Power Points and Pellegrino . As I stood in a sun - full room clutching a coffee someone asked me about my first startup . The reaction was swift . First I felt the old gut churning , the fear . It was like bringing up the name of a family member who had recently died , like raising old ghosts . I started to talk - " We just were too early , it was a good experience " - but then it got harder and harder . A failure is a blow . It 's a pop to the nose , tears welling up not out of sadness but out of surprise and anger and disappointment . Disappointment in yourself , in your choices , in your inability to stick to it . A feeling that you should have done better . A feeling that you rarely get as an adult in a cubicle , sitting and waiting for the next paycheck . It 's a feeling that I knew I needed to feel but it was also a feeling that hurt to the core . This is n't a post about crying at a tech conference . That happened and it was at once embarrassing and enlightening . It 's a post about one or two things you 'll feel when you build and how to cope . The brogrammer will say that you 're not ready to be an entrepreneur if you ca n't handle this shit . He 's wrong and he 'll get his soon enough . This is a human activity more akin to art than science . Any art that does n't make you feel something is a waste of your time . So when you embark on this remember that what you 're feeling is perfectly normal and perfectly dreadful . First , listen to your body . When we were raising funds in New York and the Valley I 'd wake up in a panic . I 'd wake up not wanting to work . For the first time in my career I did n't want to go to my computer and get started . I was gaining weight . My guts were broken . The fear was palpable . I tried to fix things through work but , and this is something I took with me to my new startup , Jaywalk , I found that what I needed was to walk or run . I needed to get out . Some kind of movement tended to calm me gave me a moment to solve my problems . One particularly rough day I walked 80 blocks through my neighborhood , from down near Green - Wood Cemetery to Downtown Brooklyn . It felt good to be out . I started running four times a week recently and I feel much better . I learned from my friend Rich that walking releases endorphins and helps the body heal itself . Further , when you feel this way , when you wake up in a sweat day after day , there are few things to check . First , tell your partners or programmers what you 'd like to change . There is always something - in our case we 'd have long meandering talks about stuff that did n't exist yet , a problem that is symptomatic of having a bad tech stack . In retrospect I could n't have changed much about that experience but you 'll find that you often feel better when your tech is going right . Find the thing you need to change . A startup is an engine for experimentation . Experiment in order to hone in on the true problem . Raising is also a stressor . Again , the old Brosephian adage , " Suck it up , you big baby " does n't apply here . I 've heard from hundreds of founders , candidly , that they hated raising . The rejection , the waiting , the curt emails back - all of these are arrows to the back . Eventually you fall . If you can bootstrap , do it . VC is in a strange place right now and the old days of team and a dream are over . Until new models firm up I 'd honestly explore equity crowdfunding and crypto - based raises . I 'll write more on that later . I also recommend something that I 've been trying , a form of behavioral therapy . I ask myself why I feel this way , what immediately preceded the feeling , and then work out a solution . It 's drastically simplified but it helps . Startups are full of stress . The stress of managing people , of quitting your full - time job , of handling the ups and downs of startup life all lead to a dangerous mix . That mix is where I really wanted to go today . Startups are dangerous in that they bring you the brink again and again . They can destroy you . I 've seen too many young , promising entrepreneurs end their lives because of some perceived failure . May is Mental Health Awareness Month . Brad Feld and his friend Chris Heivly have already written about this . Please read what they have to say . Their stories are far deeper than mine . In short , given the right ingredients , startups can bring you to the point of depression or and exacerbate mental illness . If you or someone you love are facing this then please , please get help . I 've offered a few coping mechanisms here but I have never been visited by evil thoughts . I 've been visited by sadness and fear and disappointment and disillusionment and I 've tried to fix them as best I could . I often failed but I got back up . I want all of us to get out of this alive . If you need help please consider visiting The Stability Network or FIRE Within . Visit The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Chat or call 1 - 800 - 273 - 8255 . Talk someone you trust . If you 'd like to chat I 'm johnnybnyc on Skype and my Facebook Messages is open . There will be a day when you cry for lost opportunities . There will be a day when you miss what could have been . And there will be a day , not long from now , when it all makes sense and you can finally smile .   Image via Unsplash / Christian Puta