The way companies think about design , their customers , and the interactions between the two has come a long way over the last few years . It used to be that the customer was almost an afterthought , considered only when it came to how many dollars they would be willing to shell out for a product or service and how to best market to them . As of late , however , there has been a shift to the ideas of design thinking and human - centered design : at the core this means connecting to the customer , understanding their needs , wants , and ways of operating , and putting them at the core of the product or service . Helping organisations across a variety of industries embrace the concept in order to offer customers something better is Neoteny , a design consultancy working through a user - centered perspective it calls people - focused design . Design director Michelle Gilmore cofounded the company with Nic Chamberlain in 2010 after growing tired of " bashing my head against a few really fundamental conceptual problems " she had with the industrial design space . Chief among the problems was that the solution to a problem and the channel through which it was to be delivered was often defined before the problem was properly understood . " As an industrial designer you 're told to design physical products , as a graphic designer at the time you would be doing print media or you were taught to solve problems through visual communication , and architects solve problems through buildings , whereas the channel or the discipline or the medium should n't really be defined until you understand the best way to solve that problem , " Gilmore explained . " I was just a terrible employee , and probably would be now , because a client would already have the solution in mind or the agency would try to put forward a solution that was based on the fact they had expertise in that particular discipline , therefore we were going to pitch this as a solution to the client and I would say , what if that 's not the right fit ? Should n't we check that and should n't we validate that ? " Frustrated by this and what she saw as a subjective , ego - driven approach to design , Gilmore linked up with Chamberlain , formerly head of digital at 303Lowe - now 303MullenLowe - to launch Neoteny . At the core of the company then and now is the aim to " design a world that works beautifully " , Gilmore said . What that looks like in practical terms is working with organisations from startups through to corporates , governments and non - profits to make sure they create products and services that deliver on objectives . " We believe that business problems are better solved if they are based off a real understanding of the people that will use the product or service , which is why the organisation exists , " Gilmore said . " It 's not necessarily about going out and asking people what they like and what they want , it 's about scratching the surface and really getting deep into why people make the decisions they make and how that might turn into a profitable outcome for our client and balancing the necessary organisational needs with the needs of their users . " In its aim to balance these needs and satisfy both sides , Gilmore said Neoteny will turn away organisations that want to only pay lip service to the idea . " If they are not capable of making objective decisions , they wo n't get to a successful outcome , which means we wo n't succeed , so there 's no point . Through conversations at the start of the relationship and the start of the project there 's ways that we can essentially expose that , have a conversation on it , and hopefully reframe that and change that point of view , but if we ca n't we just walk away , " she said . Despite this , a number of large organisations have signed on . Among Neoteny 's first clients with Westpac , with which Gilmore was working as a contractor . When they had a large project they had to give to a company , Gilmore said she registered Neoteny and took the project on . Having a big name on board saw the likes of Woolworths and NAB follow suit , with government departments including the ATO then approaching . " It 's funny that six or seven years ago it was actually somewhat easier to get corporate clients than it was to get startups , " Gilmore said . " It 's a little bit different now , but at the time they were understandably conservative and funding for startups in Australia did n't really exist then . " One of the better known startup names Neoteny has worked with is taxi booking and payments service Ingogo . In its approach to designing the startup 's app , Gilmore said the Neoteny team first sought to understand the context of use by going out and using taxis . One of the biggest things they found was that people were using the app in the periphery ; that is , they would hail a taxi and then look away from their phone to continue on with a conversation . In response to this , when a taxi arrives the Ingogo app alerts the user through a sound . The fact that a user is not continually staring at their screen also explains the app 's driver tracking , which updates to show the taxi 's location and how far away it is every minute or two rather than tracking its every movement like Uber does . Also incorporated into the app was a strobe light passengers can activate to ensure their driver can find them so they get into the right taxi . " It 's all about us being able to understand the people that will use the product and service and how they will use it , " Gilmore said . " With Ingogo that looks like us riding in taxis , when we worked with Australia Post it looks like us being behind the counter and serving people , when we were doing work with Tourism Australia it looked like us traveling to tourists and asking questions along the way . " It also means testing and prototyping and then watching people use the prototype . In China while working on the Tourism Australia project , Gilmore aid the team built a prototype overnight and then spent the next day with a family planning a trip to watch how they were using it . " That made it possible for me to then come back to a leadership team and say , I know this opportunity will work because I 've seen it in the market , I 've prototyped it and validated it . Of course the detail of it was n't there , but it was about validating the concept before we put too much time and effort into it , " Gilmore explained . Previewing what 's coming for Neoteny in 2017 , Gilmore said it is working with the Australian National University on the student experience , and is looking at joining forces with architects to work on large spatial design projects , looking at designing more efficient and effective spaces .