Kitchenbowl founders Ryan Waliany and Serena Wu .   It started with a cold email and ended with an acquisition . Kitchenbowl , a Seattle - based startup that built a social recipe app to help people make food , has been acquired by ABC Cooking , a Japan - based company that operates cooking schools across Asia . Kitchenbowl co - founder Ryan Waliany told GeekWire that he sent a cold email to ABC Cooking nearly one year ago about a potential licensing partnership to power one of their new cooking school concepts that leverages Kitchenbowl 's GIF - recipe format . Waliany , who started Kitchenbowl with his wife Serena Wu , said that his 7-person company ultimately " could no longer see a clear path to a high - growth technology venture . " The app had nice year - over - year user growth , but the speed was slower than anticipated . The co - founders felt that an acquisition was the best path forward , despite access to additional capital . " Our vision was to make cooking easier and more accessible to everyone , " Waliany said . " While we were unable to do that as a stand - alone company , I believe Eiko and the ABC Cooking team will be able to carry this forward with a similar mission . " ABC Cooking will integrate Kitchenbowl 's video technology into its cooking studio expereince that combines self - guided instruction with hands - on teaching . " The acquisition enhances ABC Cooking Studio 's unique ability to offer differentiated learning experiences , both in - studio and online , " Eiko Okamoto , COO of ABC Cooking , said in a statement . " As we continue to grow our footprint globally , our members are becoming more diverse and web focused . This acquisition will help drive our vision of connecting our global members online and creating a community of home cooks all over the world . " Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed . Waliany and two Kitchenbowl engineers are headed to Uber ; Wu has joined Instacart . Kitchenbowl , which re - located from San Francisco to Seattle in 2014 ,   raised a $ 1.3 million seed round in 2015 from investors like Hand of God Wines founder Jon Staenberg , Beecher 's Cheese owner Kurt Dammeier , former AllRecipes CEO Bill Moore , ModPizza CEO Scott Svenson , and others . The company inked partnerships with Seattle - based celebrity chefs like Tom Douglas and Ethan Stowell as contributors to its recipe platform , which differentiated from other recipe apps by concentrating on high - quality photos that show users how to cook a meal from their mobile device , rather than relying on word - heavy blogs . This past May , Kitchenbowl debuted Fork It , an app that encouraged users to cook at home and track their food with simple check - ins .