Reflecting the waves of tourist buses clogging city roads , Australia 's international tourism numbers are continuously increasing - roughly 4.3 million international visitors ventured down under for the purpose of travel in the year to February . In response to this large market , the startup landscape has seen a plethora of ' social travel ' solutions emerge ; from Travello to HerePin , Triplify , Backpackr , Bindle , Thubit and timeBlend , many local startups have launched looking to become the next big thing in the travel world . An international startup launching in Australia today is KimKim , looking to shift the experience of booking travel . Through an online platform , KimKim connects customers looking to book a trip with a travel specialist either based , or well versed in , the country a customer wants to travel to . Over an online chat , the travel agent will work beside the customer to put the trip together , with the ability to share links , pictures , itineraries and other documents over the chat for the customer to access . Once a traveller is on their trip , they 're able to use KimKim to contact the travel professional if any issues arise or to ask additional questions , with the response time decreased due to the likelihood of the travel agent residing in the same country the traveller is staying in . As the startup 's founder , Joost Schreve put it , travellers are able to " troubleshoot in real time " . " We 're reinventing that travel agent model in a more distributed way , " he said . A veteran of the travel industry , Schreve previously founded a travel startup called ' EveryTrail ' , acquired by global travel platform TripAdvisor in 2011 . The entrepreneur then moved on to working within TripAdvisor , an experience he said provided him a lot of valuable insight into the travel industry , especially considering the company 's massive 390 million average monthly unique user base . Seeing what both did and did n't work in the travel space , five years into the TripAdvisor gig Schreve decided it was time to move on and launch his own startup again , based around bringing the travel specialist role into the digital age . " When you try to plan and book a great trip , it 's a very complex process . You can either do it completely yourself , which a lot of people do when they 're a bit younger and they 've got the time ... at some point [ however ] , you get tired of trying to wing it and want someone to help organise it . There are n't really any digital solutions for that , other than going to traditional travel agent , " explained Schreve . Launching roughly a year ago under the name ' HiveTravel ' , the startup soon adopted the more memorable ( and admittedly a little odd ) name , KimKim , inspired from an interaction between a customer and travel agent on the platform both named ' Kim ' . Development was supported by funding from Silicon Valley angel investors , with the KimKim team moving to raise US$ 1.5 million ( AU$2 million ) , and combine it with Schreve 's own contributions . Using connections in the travel industry , Schreve onboarded two travel specialists from Iceland and Nepal onto the platform , locations picked thanks to their " smaller market " size and more streamlined travel options , which made it easier for the startup to handle the early testing stages . Building out a network of specialists across Myanmar , Peru , Colombia , Jordan and now Sydney , Schreve said each travel expert has been vetted and interviewed by the KimKim , to ensure they 're up to scratch . He added that most of the agents come to the platform as existing industry veterans in the travel industry with their own established booking business , and they use KimKim to acquire new clients and expand their offering from bricks and mortar stores to online . Leveraging the platform comes at a fee , of course , with 15 percent of the profit a travel specialist makes going to the startup . Once on board , each travel specialist is monitored by KimKim to ensure they 're working beside the customer . The startup will also act as a middleman when connecting customers to specialists , a decision which is based on asking the customer a few basic questions while having them write a short description about the trip they 're imagining . " We discovered the best way to get a customised trip is to get a few descriptions for them . It does n't have to be very long , just a few sentences from them . That 's then sent to our team to review the request , then connect them over chat to a specialist , " said Schreve . Entering the chat room , customers are able to add in their travel buddies to share in the discussion , while the travel agent is also able to tag in their coworkers if need be . Booking a trip from this point often requires some time of back and forth between the customer and travel expert , a process that Schreve explained is to make sure the agent has the time to put the best trip possible together to fit the customer 's needs . " There 's usually a few version of the trip plan , so it can be roughly 20 days for a plan to be completed sorted . This does n't mean they 're chatting the full time , of course , but rather it 's a back and forth conversation ... that can occur at any time . They may log off , and come back later , " said Schreve . Following the launch in Australia , KimKim will soon be looking to raise funding again , as Schreve said the business is looking to build out its product , global travel specialist network and team numbers to deal with KimKim 's growing user base .