Building the right teams can make or break a startup and finding the right people to fit the company culture is a priority as well . After all , if you do n't have a qualified team of motivated employees to develop , sell , market , and eventually bask in the glory of your company , you 're going to have a bad time . We asked five founders for advice on building the best team for their company . Check out what they had to say and make sure your startup teams are firing on all cylinders : Building a team is probably the most difficult thing you will do . When we hired people , we tried to think about what skills , and previous experience would be good . Most of the times , we got it wrong , but we did n't keep someone for a long time , that was not working . We once heard the phrase , " hire quickly , fire quickly , " and we stand by it . - Nathan Rothstein , cofounder and president of Project Repat Truly trying to find people who understand the startup life , and preferably , ones that have lived it before . Startups have their ups and downs and while many people say they are up for it , the minute the going gets though , the ones who ca n't handle the pressure and stress leave . I 've seen this happen a few times where companies I 've run have gone through some rough patches and inevitably , some people end up leaving because they ca n't handle it . So finding team members that have personally lived the startup life before is a huge bonus . - Scott Ferriera , managing partner , cmdR Consulting Find smart people who care about the product . The most important thing you can do early on is build a team of people who move fast , work hard , and genuinely care . Your product will always change , and your early team members will have a huge impact in shaping it . Our team uses our product personally on daily basis and this has helped us build a great product . - Yunha Kim , Founder of Simple Habit Julie , our software Systems Architect , looks for what she calls force multipliers . The basic question is , " Is the person able to positively influence beyond his / her set of tickets ? " Force multipliers make everyone look good , not just themselves . - Zachary Watson , CEO of HoneyCo Building a team is the single most important component of building a business . A strong team can make a mediocre business successful , and a weak team can destroy a terrific business . As you invest in a powerful team , that quality flows through to customers and investors . - Tom Rose , founder and creator of Testive Read more advice for startups building teams at Tech . Co .