Last year we dubbed a new startup , ShearShare , startup of the year due to a combination of their amazing team and organizational focus . When we last spoke to the founders , Courtney and Tye Caldwell , they were nearing the end of their time with 500 Startups , but already seeing the impact of their time there . Having now graduated from the program , we touched based with Courtney and Tye to learn more about their experience with 500 Startups , the role data plays in their future , and what comes next for the team . Though the team will likely have some bigger news in the coming months , we learned that the Texas duo will be planning a move to Silicon Valley . This comes after having built a foundation of great mentors during their time at 500 Startups , and also establishing stronger relationships with interested investors . In the near - future , they also plan to add additional members to the team , but will initially be tapping their network to find the most suitable candidates .   " It 's an experience like no other , " said ShearShare cofounder Tye Caldwell . " There is really nothing to compare it [ an incubator ] to . 500 gives us perspective of where companies need to focus and prioritize their efforts . You always think you are doing things that are necessary to grow the business , but 500 really outlines the ABCs for a startup . " Mirroring that of Tye 's sentiment with 500 Startups , ShearShare COO Courtney Caldwell was blown away by the entirety of the experience . " Sometimes it 's hard to put the experience into words . There is almost no adjective to label it . 500 is so hands on , it 's clear that they are committed to your long - term success , " said Courtney . " If you 're on the outside looking in , you 'd think incubators are only about seed money and office space , , but now that we 've met with a lot of founders that have been through multiple programs , the motto for the 500 Startups Seed Program really rings true : 500 strong , 500 family . People live that . And you ca n't put a price tag on it . " More Than Money and a Workspace For startups , raising money typically comes with a bundle of caveats , requirements , and future involvement from investors . Whether a startup prefers the hands - on approach or would rather ford the river on their own with minimal investor check ins , there are plenty of options to choose from . Between incubators and accelerators , 500 Startups commonly sets itself apart by truly investing in a company 's future . " Sure , they give you money , and that means they are heavily invested in your success .. But it 's not just a meeting here and there , " said Courtney . " The staff at 500 Startups Mountain View was always there , ready to help . We asked one million if not two million questions , and they answered them as if they were hearing these questions for the first time . From soup to nuts , that program was on fire . " 500 Startups Demo Day Speaking of fire , below you can see ShearShare 's demo day pitch from 500 Startups ' Batch 19 .   Other than adding some fuel to ShearShare 's plans , 500 Startups also threw in enough startup rocket scientists to help their organization move further than the launch pad , but actually touching down on the Moon . For Courtney and Tye , that means identifying priority areas for the business and tackling them head on . According to Tye , they are taking these new learnings , and bringing their work to Mountain View . The goal of their big move is to become further integrated into the startup ecosystem , and " We are doubling down on our priorities . " Four months down and new priorities set , ShearShare is now set on tackling growth and the customer experience , with the data to back up the need . Social media metrics ? No . Emails sent ? Definitely not . So what metrics does a startup in growth mode need to focus on ? The answers are specific to each startup , which is why ShearShare 's ability to prioritize their work based on data was so important . " We are the only   marketplace solving this particular B2B beauty problem , so our biggest indicator of success is   the number of empty salon and barbershop seats filled . User retention is key for any organization , as well as cost per acquisition , " said Courtney . " Our goal is to keep beauty businesses open and to provide places to work for stylists who ca n't afford costly overhead . Our customers are coming back , so as long as we fill a seat at the end of the day , we are doing our job . " As far as growth goes , the company has several areas of focus this year : expanding into cities based on request saturation ,   customer acquisition channels , and a new influencer program . The latter comes as a result of the team 's success with word - of - mouth marketing , but they will soon be able to reward those who are lending a hand . " We move when our customers and data say to move . Just look at the number . You ca n't ignore what the numbers say , " said Tye . Read more about our Startup of the Year program here at Tech . Co