Any job seeker looking for their next move knows the first place to look if they want to get a comprehensive scope of their options are online career platforms . However , with hundreds of jobs being posted each day across Seek and Indeed 's various categories , finding the perfect - let alone secure - role to apply for is difficult to say the least , especially if you 're searching within the vast array of casual or freelancer positions .   Air Events Global is an online job marketplace looking to bridge the gap for freelancers looking for casual work in the events industry , by offering a space where event specialists are able to monetise their skills . Businesses and everyday users wanting to host events are able to post job briefs , detailing the list of roles they 're looking for , which can stretch from booking a virtual assistant to digitally pre - plan an event , to professional wait staff to cater an event . For the startup 's founder , Victoria Garlick , developing the platform meant a way for her to merge both sides of the event industry together , and fill the void that each were experiencing . As an Event Management lecturer at the International College of Management in Sydney , Garlick said she saw that a number of her students were struggling to obtain casual work in the industry both while studying and once graduated . " They also were frustrated having to have a locked schedule with a part time position and really wanted control of their own schedule , " said Garlick . " On the other hand , clients were telling me how often they needed an extra set of hands for the pre - planning of an event or at an event , and could n't rely on volunteers as they were not turning up or when they did , were not contributing or taking ownership over their role . " Similar to what other niche job market platforms such as MEETIG8 , which connects risk advisors to large businesses , mean to the compliance industry , Air Events Global wants to achieve in the events space by offering a " self - serve " option for businesses . Traditionally , businesses either hire an in - house marketing or event employee to complete any event work , or contract someone from an employment agency ; both of which are costly processes . Moving past these traditional methods and towards the digital landscape , Garlick explained that an online shared economy model is able to " empower " users , in that businesses are granted complete control over who they hire and how much they spend , while freelancers are strengthened with enough options to pick and choose a role that suits them . " We are aiming to change the way people think about employment and services and give event freelancers liquid access to available work , giving them the unique opportunity to find work to fit in with their timetable and maintain a flexible lifestyle , " she said . Elaborating on how the platform offers flexibility , Garlick explained that Air Events Global will intake a lot of specialised users working across the scope of the events industry , meaning businesses are able to hire workers who meet their exact needs , rather than employing a general marketing or event practitioner .   " It covers all event services , from booking casual event staff to work pre , execution and post events , booking a makeup artist to do professional makeup for a bridal party , to booking a Virtual Assistant to work on the pre - planning of an event , " said Garlick . Planning to launch this week , Air Events Global is sticking true to its name by opening to a global market and allowing freelancers and clients to connect both internationally and locally . To post a job , clients first create a profile for themselves before developing a brief of the event they 're hosting and the budget . Posting to the platform is free , with the startup taking a fifteen percent commission of the payment to each event freelancer . To find employees for an event , the platform works akin to other job market sites , allowing businesses to find freelancer profiles and vice versa . For an event freelancer to currently join the platform , however , their resume and credentials are first screened by Air Events Global in order to maintain a high quality of candidates . In addition to filtering employees , Garlick said to ensure both employees are businesses are protected , the startup also acts as a middleman for payments . " Once the client finds the most suitable event freelancer , they accept the event freelancer and transfer the funds into the Air Events Global secure payment system and after the work is successfully completed , the funds are released to the event freelancer , " she said . For larger events , businesses are able to create a " group event brief " for their listing , which will outline a number of roles they 're looking to fill . At the end of an event , Garlick said the client and freelancer will be able to rate each other 's profile and leave a short review . " Although the event freelancer profiles are screened initially , the aim is for the platform to be built through the online reviews and testimonials , " she said . Having bootstrapped the development of the platform , Garlick said the startup is currently seeking investment opportunities , which will help spur its growth . " We are looking to build critical mass within the community and focus on the absolute basics of how we can continue to impress our customers . Our focus at this stage is to grow our userbase and offer a wide array of event services globally , " said Garlick .