National Australia Bank 's ( NAB ) digital - only banking service UBank has announced the release of RoboChat , an artificial intelligence ( AI ) assistant designed to guide homebuyers through the entire home loan application process . Built on IBM Watson 's Conversation API , RoboChat combines machine learning and intuitive language to respond to customers across forty home loan topics as well as hundreds of associated questions . Set to operate 24 hours a day , UBank said the AI was trained on data collected from customer questions that were submitted on the existing LiveChat and , of course , will continue to learn as more customers engage with it and ask begin to ask unlisted questions . There 's also a touch of humour in - built in the assistant , with the example " How much does a hipster weigh ? " and the response " An Instagram " provided by UBank ( we 're hoping though that over time the AI will also cultivate a better sense of humour too ) . Jokes aside , CEO of UBank CEO Lee Hatton said the new technology will help simplify the often laborious process of applying for a home loan , while speeding things up for customers - so much so that you can complete the process faster than you can eat breakfast . " If you 've gathered all of your paperwork , the form can be completed in as little time as it takes you to have your breakfast . And , securing one of the most competitive rates in the market could help a customer save thousands of dollars in interest over the life of a loan , " she said . Operating under NAB , UBank was launched in 2008 as an exclusive online and over the phone banking service , its digital focus set with the aim of trying to simplify banking processes . With the introduction of RoboChat now streamlining much of the home loan process , UBank was keen to assure that the AI assistant wo n't be snatching away employee jobs anytime soon ( no Skynet , yet ) , with the company 's current customer service team set to stay on board . Rather , RoboChat will join the current live chat function offered on the platform , with customers able to access either option based on their needs . " UBank will still have experienced staff on hand to chat on the phone , via email and our live online chat offering ; RoboChat will provide an added option for those needing quick online responses or those that are close to finalising the form , " Hatton said . AI assistants in the home loan process are on their way to becoming a new fad , with Aussie startup Online Home Loans looking to enter the market with their own AI , Sophie . The assistant , also built on IBM Watson , holds similar machine learning capabilities to RoboChat . However , Sophie was developed with the purpose of helping homeowners identify what type of loan they 're qualified for , with the startup looking to ' train ' the AI to the point of being able to guide customers through the entire application process . According to IBM Asia Pacific Vice President Brock Douglas , there is indeed a growing trend amongst virtual assistants . Douglas stated that this year alone , IBM Watson 's series of API 's will engage " more than a billion people , across 20 industries . " " From deepening the customer experience , to increased productivity for employees , virtual assistants are being adopted across industries and becoming more advanced in natural conversation and emotional intelligence , with the help of cognitive technology , " he said . " UBank 's work with IBM Watson is a powerful example of how organisations are leveraging cognitive virtual assistants that have the ability to engage in a conversation , ask questions , learn and respond in context , as opposed to providing stock responses . "