Startup UW on Friday hosted TigerLaunch , a competition of 15 teams of university - student entrepreneurs . ( Startup UW photo )   A club at the University of Washington is ready to help launch the next big thing . Startup UW is a student - run entrepreneurship group that provides a support network and resources for innovative students . The club 's mission is to assist students -- most of whom are undergraduates -- turn their ideas for new products and businesses into a reality . On Friday , Startup UW for the first time hosted 15 entrepreneurial teams from across the West Coast in a collegiate pitch contest called TigerLaunch . Judges for the regional competition selected five winners who will go on to a national contest being held at Princeton University in April . Five of the teams presenting on Friday were from the UW , including one of the winners , SafeFlame , which is working on a technology that turns organic waste into clean - burning cooking fuel . " Entrepreneurship is alive and well at the UW , " said Matt Koenig , president of Startup UW , and a junior studying finance .   " We have kids coming from every department to do this . " Startup UW was founded about five years ago and has 80 members . The club is affiliated with the university 's Foster School of Business and its Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship . About 60 percent of the members are from STEM programs , 30 percent from business and the other 10 percent from a variety of majors including communications , public health and design . Michael Petrochuk , a UW senior in the computer sciences program , joined Startup UW as a freshman and was part of the TigerLaunch competition . Startup UW taught him " everything I know about entrepreneurship , " Petrochuk said . His venture is called Wardrobe.tips , an online service that advises male shoppers trying to build a well - chosen professional wardrobe . " It 's so critical to dress well because it affects how people perceive you and your self - confidence , " Petrochuk said . In addition to SafeFlame , the other winners Friday were Pyur Solutions , a non - toxic pesticide for eliminating fleas , ants , cockroaches and other insect pests ; Mecanodontics , an alternative approach to orthodontic braces ; Frenzy , a fashion venture ; and ConserWater , an app that uses NASA satellite data and weather data to help farmers internationally figure out how much to irrigate their crops . Other competitors included Trusted H2O , a team from the UW that is researching reverse osmosis technology to provide clean drinking water in developing countries ; Bulletin Flights , which promotes itself as " the world 's foremost private aviation networking service " ; and Sypht , a team from the University of Oregon , which is working on an app that can quickly scan terms of service and user agreements in search of red flags . Many of the teams had already successfully participated in other pitch events and hackathons , providing some initial resources that helped them get started . Some found support from university programs . UW students have access to UW CoMotion , which has 3D printers and other resources , as well as a business plan practicum offered through the Buerk Center . The resources are out there , Koenig said , " you have to be scrappy and find a lot of this on your own . " Aadith Moorthy is a student from Caltech and the founder of ConserWater . If he wins in the finals , he already has plans for the prize money . ConserWater is still early stage , Moorthy said . " Once we get funding , we plan to increase our marketing operations . Penetration is the hardest for individual , small farmers . " The judges for the West Coast contest were Greg Gottesman , managing director at Pioneer Square Labs and venture partner at Madrona Venture Group ; Karen Mooney , COO at C+C ; Marion Desmazieres , tech business developer for Amazon Alexa ; Sarah Boden , deputy executive director and COO for Access Services , which administers Los Angeles County 's transportation program for the disabled ; and Alan Leong , founding advisor for the gene therapy company Sigma Genetics . The teams going to the finals in April will compete for $ 30,000 in prize money , as well as the opportunity to meet with national venture capital firms . The student entrepreneurs , said Koenig , " are solving some crazy problems for the world . " TigerLaunch operates separately from the University of Washington Business Plan Competition , which has awarded $ 1.2 million in prize money to 139 student companies in the past 18 years . Team registration for that competition is open from March 13 to April 3 .