Startup Founders may wonder how they would benefit from being a part of an accelerator . As one who ran the Sprint Accelerator powered by Techstars from 2014 - 2016 , I saw many examples of the ecosystem in action - it is so vast and comprised of different types of people - entrepreneurs , mentors , investors , corporate partners - the benefits of being a part of an accelerator ecosystem benefits are equally diverse . One great example is the Firebrand Ventures investment in Sickweather , a Techstars alumni company .   Sickweather is a sickness forecasting and mapping app that scans social media for reports of illness and uses a patent pending process to turn those reports into accurate real - time and forecasted sickness data . For those lil ones that are prone to catching every germ and bug out there , this app can tell you what illnesses are popping up in your area and forecast future outbreaks . This startup was part of the first class of the Sprint Accelerator powered by Techstars in 2014 and made fantastic progress during the program , even inking a deal with Sprint 's mobile ad division Pinsight Media .   After Demo Day ,   Sickweather set out to raise capital and landed an investment from Brad Feld 's FG Angels syndicate . Even though CEO Graham Dodge and his team went back to Baltimore and California after the program , they kept in touch by sending regular email updates to mentors and investors . I ca n't overstate how important this is ! David Cohen wrote about this in his blog post Do n't Go Dark . By having founders do this , it was one of the ways I learned Sickweather landed key partners including The Weather Channel and Clorox . They also always gave a heads up when they were visiting conferences or coming back to Kansas City . There were valuable touch points to keep the relationship strong .   In August 2016 I transitioned from my Techstars Managing Director role to a full - time investor and launched Firebrand Ventures , a seed fund that invests in early - stage software startups in the Midwest . Techstars was hugely supportive . My mentors Brad Feld and David Cohen provided invaluable advice and I was fortunate to add David as an advisor . Find out what other startups doing to attract investors When Graham told me they were raising a round it was a relatively easy decision to invest in them . Graham did his part by keeping me up to date about their great progress and ended up a great fit for our investment criteria . Most importantly , I had known him and his core team for over three years . I always thought the health data analytics part of their business had huge potential and after two years their data set had become valuable to consumer health and pharma companies . I joined their board shortly after Firebrand invested . Ever since that 2014 Techstars program , Graham and his cofounders loved Kansas City for its super supportive community , great food and music , and low cost of living . As a result of the Firebrand investment , Sickweather decided to open an office in Kansas City and possibly move the headquarters there . The KC startup community is buzzing and it 's perfect timing as the new Techstars Kansas City program kicks off in July . The Techstars network is also fantastic for funds like Firebrand . It 's no coincidence that three of our first four investments so far were in Techstars alumni . Beyond investments , I 'm a big believer in Give First . I plan to continue mentoring at as many Techstars programs as possible . I look forward to continuing to play an active role and investing in more great Techstars companies ! Read more about startups in Kansas City here . This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .