Plastic is a problem . It 's a problem that Scottish startup MacRebur is taking on one mile at a time . MacRebur is aiming to challenge three major world issues : Repurposing millions of tonnes of waste plastic , saving millions in the cost of road repairs and strengthening our existing roads . The idea for the startup was born when CEO and co - founder Toby McCartney - who happens to live on a road plagued by potholes himself ( delete ' himself ' ) - visited India and witnessed people melting down plastic they found on local landfill sites to repair potholes . While the method he witnessed on that trip was n't particularly environmentally practical , McCartney left with the idea of using waste plastic to replace and reinforce the roads here in the UK and beyond . Both potholes and waste plastic are potentially hazardous - uneven road surfaces increase the likelihood of road accidents , whereas plastic lying dormant in landfill sites is harmful to our environment . Repurposing that waste plastic to work towards improving the safety of our roads whilst creating stronger , more resilient roads that will stand the test of time is at the heart of MacRebur , and their startup is hitting the road hard . While McCartney 's trip to India saw him witness waste plastic being crammed into potholes , doused in petrol and set alight , MacRebur 's approach to using plastic in new and existing road composition has a little more strategy and environmentally conscious thought behind it . Rather than simply filling holes with the plastic that may wear away faster than traditional road materials , MacRebur is pelletising a mix of waste plastics and adding them to existing road materials , strengthening the material used to fill potholes and create new roads . Traditional road materials such as asphalt and bitumen are costly - road repairs are funded from the tax - payers ' purse , making innovation in this space in the greater interest of everyone and their neighbour . By adding the waste plastic pellets to the road the cost of producing the material is reduced , waste plastic is recycled effectively and the roads themselves will last longer - a win - win situation for all . The company has conducted extensive testing into just how well these roads will perform , and has created road surfaces for lorry parks , airport runways and council roads . The company hopes that their expertise will help to change the way we build roads and recycle waste plastic in the UK , Europe and eventually worldwide , and as the 2016 winner of the Virgin Media Business Voom competition the company has gained national support for their venture . Its success in this competition has helped the team build their business from an idea to a tried and tested offering , and with its funding mission in full swing , the team seem to be on the right road to changing the way we travel for the better .   