Martin Casado . Northern Arizona University Martin Casado is a legend in his own corner of the tech world for inventing a technology that radically alters the way computer networks are built . He invented the tech while he was a PhD student at Stanford . He took that invention , and two of the professors advising him ( legends in their own right ) Nick McKeown from Stanford and Scott Shenker from University of California , Berkeley , and founded a startup back in 2012 . It was called Nicira and it was backed by VCs like Andreessen Horowitz ( " a16z " ) . " Nicira launched into the networking industry like a cannonball hitting placid water , " a16z founder Marc Andreessen wrote of Nicira and of Casado . That 's true . The company was quietly founded in 2007 , but did n't officially launch until early 2012 . Five months later , it sold to VMware for a stunning $ 1.26 billion . And the network industry has never been the same . After staying with VMware for a few years , Casado left in early 2016 to become a VC with a16z . But the interesting thing is , he does n't think of himself as a runaway success . He thinks of himself as someone who " got good at failure . " Or so he told the 2017 graduating class at his first alma mater , Northern Arizona University , where he spoke after receiving an honorary PhD on May 13 . " When I was standing where you are , I wanted to be the world 's best computational physicist , " Casado confessed to the crowd . " And soon after I wanted to be the world 's foremost cyber policy expert . But instead I went to grad school , and then I wanted to be the world 's best academic . And I certainly did n't accomplish that . " " I only found computer science because I could n't hack it as a physicist , and then I failed as a microbiology student . I made many , many missteps as the first time founder of a company , " he said . Casado 's speech was short , sweet , funny , and profound . VMware 's Martin Casado is considered the father of SDN VMware I heard it because I was in the audience that day , proudly watching my own daughter graduate with a degree in astrophysics ( notice how I slipped in that motherly brag ? ) . While I 'm insanely proud of my kid , I 'm also biting my nails over what her degree will lead to . She does n't want to go to grad school right now . And although she knows forms of math that I did n't even know existed , what kind of career will she have ? I do n't know . And neither does she . But Casado 's speech flipped my view on it . He offered four solid bits of advice to students , which is good advice for anyone , at any age : Since no one can predict the future , while on the path to a goal , a better goal " is likely to smack you while you 're looking the other way , and you 'd be an idiot not to follow it , " he said . His advice is to " take some fraction of that effort and work on being open to change , and to opportunity , " while working toward your goals . If he had n't been open to change in his career , he never would have invented an industry - changing technology . He suggests that it is really " failure , " not " progress " that indicates whether you are living up to your potential . If you are failing , you are truly pushing yourself , and " not stalling your own progress by hiding . " The true skill , then , is " to learn to embrace failure . Not only embrace failure , get good at it , and by that I mean get back up , apply what you 've learned , and hit reset . " Every person is unique , and that means what 's right for others is n't always right for you . When it comes to advice , listen to the parts that ring true for you , and disregard the rest . " You 're going to take one path out of an infinite number of possibilities , " Casado said . " And you 're going to navigate it your way . " So , if there is a secret to life , happiness , and success , it 's this : " The opportunity is hidden in the sloppiness . If you hold too hard to specific ideas of where you want to go , or what the landscape will look like , or what the world will provide you , I can guarantee you 'll be disappointed . " CASADO : " Graduates , I am deeply honored to have a few minutes with you . So let me first thank you for the opportunity and your attention . Right now . This moment . Is one of the most significant inflection points in your life . And perhaps not in the way you 'd expect . So if you 'll indulge me , I 'd like to explain why . Getting to this point . This space we 're all sharing right now , has taken a tremendous amount of work and dedication . No doubt . And for that , I applaud you , and you have my deepest respect . However , a university education , no matter how windy , is a path with a clear goal . It was challenging , sure . Yet generally the objective was pretty obvious : Work hard and get the hell out . All of that is about to change . Almost two decades ago I was standing where you are now . I was nervous . I was excited . And I was largely over it . And so I took that proverbial step . And very quickly , I realized that where I landed was very , very different from where I left . It was as if I stepped off of a narrow path and into a city . And unlike my university experience , there was no clear goal . There was n't a defined string of classes or tests I had to pass . There was no notion of a start or finish . Instead there was a vast , vast collection of opportunities and perils . Infinite routes , to infinite locations , and none of which I really understood . You could chose to stop or move at any time with equal chance of benefit or loss . And I found that none of my experiences really prepared me to navigate such a wide open space . There were no platitudes , no cliches , no quippy one liners that provided clear and useful guidance . It was n't just about working hard and setting goals . It was n't just about perseverance or having a positive attitude . I knew how to do all those things . This new space required something far different . So with that backdrop I 'd like to offer you some advice . Lessons that no one would be able to put on a motivational poster and keep their job . Lessons to keep in mind as you take this next step into the chaos . First : You 're unlikely to achieve your goals . Really , it 's very unlikely . When I was standing where you are , I wanted to be the world 's best computational physicist . And soon after I wanted to be the world 's foremost cyber policy expert . But instead I went to grad school and then I wanted to be the world 's best academic . And I certainly did n't accomplish that . You 're unlikely to achieve your goals . The reason is that you probably do n't realize how many amazing opportunities are out there , and how much you 'll enjoy them . You are unlikely to achieve your goals , because a better one is likely to smack you while you 're looking the other way , and you 'd be an idiot not to follow it . So my guidance to you is as much as you work towards your goals , take some fraction of that effort and work on being open to change , and to opportunity . Second : You are going to fail . A lot . It 's inevitable . I only found computer science because I could n't hack it as a physicist , and then I failed as a microbiology student . I made many , many missteps as the first time founder of a company . You are going to fail because you 're going to be navigating a shifting landscape with a lot of things not under your control . You 're going to fail because the goals are going to change or be unclear . You 're going to fail because you 'll start something , and realize it 's not what you want to do . And here 's the key : Failing will be your only true measure of progress . It 's inevitable . The system you 're about to walk into is simply too dynamic and too poorly defined for you not to . And so my guidance to you is to learn to embrace failure . Not only embrace failure , get good at it , and by that I mean get back up , apply what you 've learned , and hit reset . Third : No one really knows what contributes to success . Not me , not some business guru , or some pundit on the news . No one . And that 's particularly true for your success . Yours . Here 's the reality : Every one of you is a beautiful collection of amazing qualities and strengths . Unique in all the universe you . And you 're going to take one path out of an infinite number of possibilities . And you 're going to navigate it your way . So right here , I grant you permission to summarily ignore the nonsense of others . Take advice as input , sure . But check it against your absolutely unique perspective and qualities to bring to a problem . You do you , Boo . For what it 's worth , of all the advice I 've given you , this last request will probably be the most difficult . I know you can work hard . I know you 're all smart , and capable , and resourceful . But I do n't know how well you know yourself . I certainly did n't when I graduated . And it took a lot of inquiry , and a lot of failure , and a lot of false starts to begin to figure it out . In the words of Dr. Seuss , that he actually did n't write and I totally made up , " You ca n't do you , Boo , if you do n't know you " OK , let me take a step back . Here 's where all of this is leading . The universe is a messy place . And the real trick going forward is to acknowledge that , and to embrace it . The opportunity is hidden in the sloppiness . If you hold too hard to specific ideas of where you want to go , or what the landscape will look like , or what the world will provide you , I can guarantee you 'll be disappointed . And it 's exactly because the beauty is in the chaos . What have I asked of you ? One , focus on being open to change because although you 're all beautiful and bright and creative individuals , the opportunities are for more wondrous than you can possible conceive . Two , fail . It 's the only way you know that you 're riding the chaos and are not stalling your own progress by hiding . Three , no one knows what 's best for you . Because really , it 's unknowable . So ignore the pundits and do it your way . And to do that , know yourself . Because really , this journey is for you . And your priorities . And for those you care about . With that , I 'll leave you with a quote . And this one I did n't make up . It 's from the Ashtavakra Gita : ' Let the waves of the universe rise and fall as they will . You have nothing to gain or lose . You are the ocean . ' Thank you very much , and again many congratulations . "