Tosin Awofeso felt like he did n't have a lot of options . With a baby on the way , stringing together freelance gigs as a piano player and photographer was n't going to cut it . One morning , Awofeso showed up for an interview for a customer service position at OwnLocal , a search engine optimization company in Austin , Texas . Awofeso really wanted that job , because simply put , he needed it to feed his family . Unfortunately , they turned him away and said that he should " concentrate on what he 's really passionate about . " " I was like , ' I 'm really passionate about feeding my unborn child , ' " Awofeso told me last month . " I just wanted to take care of my family . " Without another promising lead on full - time work , Awofeso was back doing gigs at night and figuring out how to support his family . To add to the worry , he and his partner Sophia had to move several times and had to live out of a hotel . Their car barely worked and they did n't have the money to fix it whenever it decided to die on them . Sophia was unable to work due to her back problems and a challenging pregnancy .   Prior to interviewing at OwlLocal , Awofeso had started taking free online coding classes , thinking the skill might lead him to a good , steady paycheck and health benefits . He had n't made much progress , though . He thought attending a coding school would be a better path to learning coding . The problem was , those schools were expensive and he did n't have the money to enroll . Then he got a stroke of luck .   A friend who knew he was in a bind offered to give him the money for a deposit on a coding school program . Awofeso credits as one of the big breaks that helped him sort out his life , " I was like , ' Hell yeah ! ' " Awofeso told me . Awofeso had a friend who was an instructor at Galvanize 's Austin campus . What 's more , Awofeso looked at the school 's placement rates and the kind of jobs Galvanize grads were landing and felt it would be a good fit for him . Awofeso hesitated at first and realized money was n't the only obstacle , there was also his time . He 'd have to put the rest of his life on hold for six months -- no work , no music performances . What 's more , Sophia 's due date was only a few months away . " I almost did n't do it , " Awofeso said . He and Sophia talked it through and decided that although it would be tough , if they could just get through those six months of school , things might finally be easier . " Once I started , I went with the mindset that I needed to succeed -- all my eggs were in this basket , " Awofeso said . If beginning school was n't hard enough , Awofeso and Sophia continued to struggle to find a stable place to live . They had to move out of the hotel and stayed with a friend who had an extra room they rented as an Airbnb . Awofeso and Sophia lived there when the room was vacant , but every time someone rented it they had to move out for a few days and stay somewhere else . Nevertheless , Awofeso studied coding and did everything he could to care for his pregnant partner at the same time . Awofeso was used to these type of challenges in life but it did n't get him down .   " I 've been black for a long time , " he said . " I 'm not mad at anybody , but I 've had to work twice as hard to get half as far in a lot of places . " A few weeks in , Awofeso began to gain his stride with coding . " I love coding , " he said . " It 's so much fun ; I love solving problems other people give up on . " He credits three things having made all the difference for him at Galvanize : an incredible teacher , a great curriculum , and a killer group of people in his cohort . " It was fantastic , " Awofeso said . " I learned quickly and was perfectly challenged the whole time . " Toward the end of his six months , Awofeso was sitting in a workshop about how to negotiate a competitive salary . His phone rang . It was someone with an Austin startup called Common Edit , a music company he 'd hoped to work for someday . " Literally , I get up out of the room and get an offer during the talk about how to negotiate the salary you 're worth , " Awofeso said . " So I had the confidence to be like , ' No , I need to get paid this much . ' " He was able to start with a short - term contract for the pay he negoitated . Eventually , Common Edit liked what he was producing and agreed to hire him full - time at the same rate and would be working on their " suite of tech products that will help musicians collaborate with each other and make music . " I checked in with Awofeso and he 'd already had a couple paychecks land in his bank account and things were looking up . Awofeso had just bought a new Kia , and he and Sophia and their new little baby were going apartment hunting . " There 's an end in sight , " he said . Read more inspirational stories at Tech . Co This article is courtesy of the Galvanize blog . Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Interested in entrepreneurship , web development , or data science ? Check out the Galvanize Newsletter , bringing you the best content from The Learning Community for Technology .