startup pitches . Company : Recreate Memory . Headquarters : Provo , Utah . Founding Team : Art and artist enthusiast , Jared Workman . Why we like it : With snapchat as a popular hit for smartphone users , selfie sticks a common travel item and front facing cameras frequently used on mobile devices , it is clear we live in a photo - loving society . No , we 're not talking about anything narcissistic . We 're talking about maintaining physical memories -images we can refer to later down the track when the time that we rode our bike for the first day begins to blur .     But two decades ago , snapchat did n't exist , selfie sticks were n't popular and many people did n't think of using their phone to take a selfie . So then what ? Recreate memories is an online service offering you the chance to make up for any memory blurring around the edge . You can recreate a memory that you 've always held dear to you , but at that particular moment your thoughts were n't on taking a photo . Honestly , this is easier than it sounds . All you have to do is know the memory you want to create and put a rough time period on it . Select photos from this time period in your life containing the people you wish to include in this memory and along with an explanation of your memory , submit them to Recreate memories . The artists with Recreate will create a draft image of this moment and send it back for your approval . When you 're happy , they 'll whisk up the final result and you will have the image in your hands . So unless you 're a superb artist yourself , it would only be for recreate memories that you could have a copy of this physical image . It can be difficult thinking up the perfect gift for a loved one . At the end of the day they 're most likely content with your company . However , with Recreate you can give then a physical memory of a significant or happy moment you have both share in the past . Technically your gifting them your company in physical form . Not only can they relive this moment but they also receive a valuable gift . Yes , this is starting to sound pretty cheesy , but at the end of the day who does n't like a bit of cheese every now and then .   