Regardless of your organization 's size , industry , or type , there 's one key performance indicator that -- when measured and leveraged properly -- can have a profound impact on the vitality of your business . This indicator is n't new , and the logic behind it has been around for decades . In fact , there 's a good chance you 're already using it . I 'm talking about Net Promoter Score ( NPS ) , a tool used to gauge customer loyalty . While simplistic in its format , NPS can deliver powerful insights for virtually any business -- from startups to Fortune 500 companies . For most organizations , though , the common practice is to send out the NPS survey a couple times per year ( or shortly after a new sale has been made ) . But by experimenting with the frequency and timing of NPS surveys -- and thinking strategically about where the resulting feedback goes -- business leaders can use this score to uncover a goldmine of intel they can leverage to dramatically improve the customer experience , which directly correlates with the bottom line . An NPS survey asks one simple question : on a scale of 0 to 10 , how likely is it that you would recommend us to a friend ? The respondent 's answer then indicates whether he or she is a promoter , detractor , or passive . Promoters are your brand 's loyal enthusiasts . They 're the ones who keep purchasing your product and urge others to do the same . Passives are satisfied , but wo n't necessarily stick around if something they perceive to be better comes along . Detractors are the unhappy or dissatisfied customers who may spread their dissatisfaction to their circles of influence , thus detracting from your business . That initial feedback certainly provides a good jumping - off point , but at my company , we knew we could do more with it . So last year , we implemented a new strategy around our NPS , and from that point forward , it became a high - priority , company - wide metric for us in terms of customer service delivery . Previously , we sent out NPS surveys to customers every six months . Eventually , we realized that we needed a more consistent stream of product feedback . So , we divided our customers into cohorts and began emailing surveys to a different group of people each week . This means that , while each individual still completes only two surveys per year , we 're now able to collect feedback from across our customer base every single week . As a result , we 've been able to better track success and diagnose issues more rapidly -- rather than learning about those issues six months down the road . We 're also able to correlate these scores with industry trends , downtimes , and product issues that may be occurring . Of course , data is only as valuable as the action it drives . On that note , once we receive our NPS results , we immediately act on them . Comments are divided into four categories : red , yellow , green , and gold . Gold commenters are our promoters , green are passives , and red and yellow are detractors . If a red or yellow comment comes in , a task is automatically created in our CRM , and our success team is notified to reach out to that customer to try and remedy whatever problem he or she is experiencing . Red and yellow comments are also passed along to our product team members , who then reach out to gain more information or to let the customer know that his or her suggestion is being added to the roadmap . This ensures that customers know they 're being heard . Green and gold comments go to our customer loyalty manager , who works to enroll those customers in our loyalty program . We also keep all of our executive team members in the loop about our NPS scores by sending a weekly email with that week 's score as well as comparisons to the previous week and the same week last year . Executives also see customer comments , which means our customers are having a greater impact on decisions at the highest levels of the company . The value of this feedback extends well beyond improving our support and products ; it 's critical information for every department to have and act upon . With this methodology in place , NPS is no longer just a number for us -- it 's a powerful tool we can harness to build better relationships . And that , in turn , has allowed us to better serve our customer base . In fact , our score drastically improved within just six months . Before you send out your next NPS , consider what valuable feedback you may be leaving on the table . Are there opportunities to better collect -- and leverage -- this data ? If so , it could have a huge -- and positive -- impact on your business growth and bottom line .