Fundraising is a complicated , and at times , confusing process . To fundraise effectively , you need to have a strategy , understand different types of investors , know how much to raise , and create an investor pipeline . And while all of this is integral to an effective funding round , asking the right questions can go a long way in setting yourself up for success . Below , we discuss the typical questions you will hear from investors and discuss how you might go about answering them : Investors are looking for a simple and clear answer of who you are selling to . They 're also looking to understand how clearly you know the pain point , and how big of a problem it is for the customers . This question also opens up a conversation about founder - market - fit , as well as helps investors think about the size of the opportunity . Investors want to understand how you are proposing to solve the problem , but more importantly , they 're looking to see if you have unique insight . Has anyone else thought about this before ? How is it different from other solutions ? Do you have a secret ? Seriously , investors want to know this because the more differentiated you are , the more defensible the business might become in the future . Investors naturally want to see the demo of your product , because a demo is worth 1,000 words . A lot of investors want to fund product - obsessed founders - founders who get lost in details of the product , who are super thoughtful and nerdy about features they built , and really understand customer needs . Always show your product to investors and make the demo awesome . What numbers do you use to drive the business ? Lack of clarity or hesitation is a major red flag for investors . If you are n't clear about your metrics , investors wo n't believe that you can grow the business . Investors want to make sure you understand and measure your conversion and sales funnels , activation , retention , magic moment , churn , CAC , LTV , etc . The question of traction is really two - fold . First , investors are literally asking what is your traction . Second , and more important , how do you define traction ? Many founders mistake progress or effort for traction . On the other hand , investors think of traction as revenue and paying customers or significant growth in weekly and monthly active users . How big is your market is a question that matters to a lot of investors . Why ? Because VCs economics force them to only focus on very large markets . VCs look for big markets with lots of money so that , when they own 20 percent of your business , they get a meaningful amount to return all or a portion of their fund when you exit . Otherwise , they do n't make money . In the early days , founders are expected to know the terms and have an idea of what the numbers are . The cost of user acquisition conversation leads to the conversation about channels , marketing and advertising spend . If you are B2B company with direct sales , you will talk about cost of sales and how it will change at scale . Life - time value of the customer is equally important . How long does it take to pay back the amount it cost to acquire this customer ? How much money will you make on the average customer ? Naturally , investors want to understand how you make money . They want to know who your customers are and how are you planning to charge them . This question combines not just pricing , but strategy and tactics as well . If you make money indirectly , via advertising , they would then focus on how your acquire customers . This is probably a less common question in the early stage , but it is an important one . Investors are looking for you to demonstrate that you 've done customer research and competitor research . They are also looking for you to acknowledge that you are early and the pricing is likely to change . Unit economics give an inductive case for your business . For example , for Uber , a unit would be either one ride or one driver , depending on how you model it . The key thing in unit economics analysis is to capture all associated costs and revenues and then see if you are actually making money . Some startups have poor unit economics initially and say they will optimize costs later . The go - to market strategy question is a really important one and is often misunderstood . Investors ask this typically when founders say that their product works for everyone . Investors are skeptical , as experience says that focusing on a vertical or a segment is typically better . For example , if you are building developer tools , you could initially focus on freelancers and individual developers . Then once the product is solid , you can move upstream to mid and large enterprises . Tesla had the opposite strategy . It first made a high end car and has been moving downstream . How are you planning to acquire customers ? In the consumer world , you have paid and unpaid means . You can advertise or you can use content marketing , social channels and word of mouth . Investors want to understand how deeply you understand your channels . This is a question that often goes unasked , but is certainly on the investors mind . Timing is everything , and really understanding why now is the time for your company to win is important . The VC industry is full of examples when something was too early or too late , and as a result , it did n't work or did n't get as big . Investors do n't want to fund accidental founders . They want to fund people with deep domain expertise , massive vision , and passion . Investors want to get to the bottom of why you started the business - do you have unique insight and unfair advantage ? In addition to understanding if you know the space , investors want to understand if you are resilient and smart . The question about where you grew up is really a question about how hard you have had to fight through your life to get to where you are .   There are no hard and fast rules of course , but the environment you grow up in often defines your level of resilience . When things get difficult , and they always do , will you walk away ? When you get knocked down , will you get back up ? This is another interesting question that does n't have a clear cut right answer , but is telling to investors . If you say you met at a hackathon 3 months ago , what you 're saying is that you do n't really know each other well . Investors may think that the connection between you and your co - founders is n't solid . If you are saying that you 've been friends since high school , investors know that you trust each other . It 's always important to think about competition . Investors are looking to understand how knowledgable you are about competitors and what is different about you . If you say you do n't have competition or if you bad mouth them , it 's a red flag . Simply acknowledge competitors , and highlight what they are doing well . Explain how you are different and why . Some founders stumble on this question and this is a red flag for investors , particularly for VCs who want to back founders with big vision . What do you want your company to be in 10 years ? This question reveals not only how you think about the business long term , but whether you plan for it to exist a decade or more . If your plan is to sell quick , you wo n't have a broad long term vision . This topic is complex and founders often approach it with a naivete . A typical answer might be expressed in terms of specific product milestones and scaling of the team . This is not what investors are looking for . They want to understand tangible business milestones you will reach with the capital you are given . This is a pretty straightforward question that follows from your financial model . A few things to pay attention too : first , your HR costs should roughly be 70K-100 K per head . Second , investors will look for clarity around advertising spend -- in the early days , before strong product market fit you should not me spending a lot of money to acquire customers . And lastly , investors will look for any outliers , anything that jumps out as out of ordinary or unusual . As a startup , you need to make a growth assumption . The trick is that you do n't have a ton of historical data to back it up . Whatever data you do have , include it in the model and explain it , because it helps establish credibility . Historically , many of the best startups have reinvested their revenues into the business and sacrificed profitability in favor of growth . Since the financing market has become tighter , profitability is fashionable again . Becoming profitable is important for many reasons , but the main one is that it allows you to become self sufficient and control your destiny . When you are profitable , you are no longer in need of external capital in order to survive . VCs want to know what happens to your business over time . Assuming you can get a lift off , investors want to know what happens year 5 , year 10 , etc . Why ? Because this is a typical horizon over which more successful startups go public or get acquired for a significant return . Long - term defensibility is difficult to predict . That 's why many investors look for natural monopolies , winner take all markets and businesses with network effects . If you are startup that is creating a new technology , investors want to know about your IP . Are there things here that can be patented ? What is the true innovation in your business ? While software patents haven't been effective in recent years , depending on the type of your business and depending on what kind of investors you are talking to , IP can be an important topic . This question will be particularly relevant for startups that are working in AI , VR , dev tools and other areas that require deep tech . Some investors , particularly technical ones , will want to nerd out with you on your stack . This is one of the hardest questions investors will ask you - why might you fail ? This question is a probe for how you think about risks in your business , whether or not you acknowledge risks and if you 're self - aware and intellectually honest . Great founders bring up and face risks head on . They do n't try to shove them under the rug and ignore them . Investors are n't likely to ask you this question , but they will certainly think about it . Investors are putting money into your business to make more money , and historically , since the IPO market is tight , most successful companies are acquired . Although you have no plan to sell your company , it 's good to think about who might bite in the future and why . This is a simple question - just tell investors exactly how much you raised , whether you did it on the note or via equity . Do n't stumble or hesitate , because that would be a red flag . This is another straightforward question . Let them know who your existing investors are without hesitating to create confidence in you and your potential investors . You should be clear on how much you are raising based on the financial model . Depending on where you are in the fundraising process , you may not have the terms set yet . If you do n't have the terms set , then just say so - investors will completely understand . This post originally appeared on Thoughts on Tech Startups and Venture Capital . This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .