They 're our biggest trade customer and have a market economy worth more than AU$10 trillion , but China is no longer just interested in our trade . They 're interested in our startups . Both the Australian and Chinese governments have actively committed to facilitating further involvement in Australian startups from China . And with our general relationship with China already worth more than AU$160 billion annually , and growing , there has never been a better time for Australian startups to connect with Chinese investors and advisors . But the question many companies will be asking themselves is how they can get their foot in the door of this lucrative market . Target areas that have a particular impact in China When it comes to technology , China is already very good at servicing consumers . Companies like Alibaba and Tencent have the B2C space covered . But for business solutions , surprisingly , China is lagging far behind . Any business will have a high impact in China if it can address the gap in China 's technology market . B2B servicing in particular is one area where China is looking for new solutions and potential investments . Australian companies that can offer cross border payments and wealth management , cyber and blockchain , consumer payment and online asset management will have an advantage over their immediate Chinese competitors . Have the potential to grow overseas Already Australia has close political and geographical ties with China , which gives us an automatic advantage over our competitors in the US and UK . But for any company looking for opportunities expanding into China , it is essential to understand the geography of China 's different growth industries . For example , Shenzhen is famous for Tencent and Huawei , so areas such as fintech , telecom and the IT industries are developing very well . Shanghai is the key financial hub in China , a city of investment banking , securities and managed funds . But if you 're looking at potential for animation , advanced manufacturing or medical research and development , then Chengdu is the place to be . It is just as important to decide where your best prospects are in China as to decide that you want to expand to China in the first place . Be able to work under joint venture structures Being able to network with any VC is just as important as selling your messaging to them . Gone are the days where investors are happy to hand over their capital and take a step back from the business . Instead , you are now well placed to take advantage of both their business and networking expertise . With current capital control in China , institutional investors and listed companies are being cautious about their overseas investments . Areas such as direct securities , sports clubs and property investment will be harder to gain investor approval . However , investment in technology or other products and services with the potential to grow in China is still highly encouraged . This includes , but is not limited to , health products , health and aged care , education and the financial services . The important thing to remember when working with any Chinese VC is the differences when it comes to business culture between our two countries . It 's no longer true that Chinese business transactions are negotiated over the dining table , but this is still a very important part of the Chinese process . What will have more of an impact on Australian entrepreneurs is the long working hours . Chinese business professionals are known for frequently working long hours and even weekends , so you may need to prepare yourself for some late night phone calls . Likewise , Chinese professionals expect a quick turn - around when it comes to communication . It is common in the negotiation process for both parties to go back to their teams and come back with a revised plan within 2 or 3 weeks . But if the discussion is serious , your Chinese correspondents may expect a response within a day or two . That 's why apps such as WeChat are so popular in China ; they allow for constant back - and - forth communication as opposed to emails , and are also very accessible outside of traditional working hours . Prove that you can disrupt your field There is a myth in Australia that Chinese investors are only interested in property investment . Likewise , in China , there is a misconception that because of our existing trade deals , Australia is all about iron ore , dairy and resources . It is up to you and your business to help disrupt these myths by providing in - demand technology and startup solutions that will be attractive to Chinese investors . Of course , disruptors in different industries will naturally have different characteristics . But what is important to investors is to see cost saving measures , and particularly , improved efficiency across the board . Blockchain is a good example of this ; it has already saved millions of dollars for asset transactions in what is a more efficient and accurate method . Understand legal and compliance frameworks to protect IP When it comes to an understanding of legal , political , social or cultural issues around your business , protecting the IP and capital of yourself and any existing investors will be seen in good light . Chinese VC 's treat overseas investment cautiously and they will investigate your company at length before going into business with you . This can be anywhere from your personal connection , to the business and the quality of your team as a whole , to the more standard features like potential for global scaling and your growth trajectory . By making sure you have all your bases covered you prove to not only be a considered investment for any VC , but will be particularly attractive to the Chinese market . The capital market in China is actively looking for advanced tech . So if any Australian business can demonstrate that they are the best in their field , they will likely see sizeable interest and potential investment from China .