The Dutch startup ZIVVER has just secured an investment of about EUR3 million from venture capital investor henQ and current investors . ZIVVER 's software allows organisations and private individuals to email , chat and share very large files in a secure environment . The software helps people become aware of the risks related to sensitive information and helps prevent data leaks . Founded in 2015 , ZIVVER provides its users with active support by giving targeted warnings and employing simple security measures . ZIVVER CEO Rick Goud explained : " Most data leaks are caused by human error . That 's why ZIVVER warns users even before they hit the send button . It 's a unique , but mostly a necessary solution in these times of cyber crime and stricter rules regarding data leaks . " The Dutch Personal Data Protection Act was tightened in 2016 , making it mandatory for organisations to report data leaks . In 2016 , organisations reported approximately six thousand leaks to the Dutch Data Protection Authority , which translates to roughly twenty leaks per day . A single data leak can involve the details of thousands of people . As almost 40% of all data leaks originate from healthcare organisations and the public sector , this includes medical and other sensitive data such as Citizen Service Numbers . More stringent privacy legislation will be introduced throughout the European Union starting in May 2018 , which will see fines for the failure to protect personal data increase to up to 4% of company revenue . Add to this the damage to the company 's reputation and repair costs , and the impact of a data leak becomes abundantly clear . Organisations , including many in the healthcare sector , currently use regular email servers , free chat services and online file transfer services on a massive scale . Although these might be easy to use , ZIVVER argues that they are not secure . Jan Andriessen , Associate Partner at henQ stated : " Data leaks are a substantial threat for organisations working with sensitive data . ZIVVER provides a secure alternative that is driven by user - friendliness . This focus , coupled with a growing awareness in healthcare and the public sector , means that this company could well grow out to become the prime supplier of secure communication . " The Amsterdam - based startup ZIVVER plans to use the investment to further optimise its Software - as - a - Service ( SAAS ) solution . The primary goal of the ZIVVER team is to expand their client base in hospital care , geriatric care , primary healthcare , mental healthcare and the social domains of Dutch municipalities . The company is also scoping out opportunities for further growth in Europe and is investigating new markets , such as the financial services industry . In just two years ' time , the startup has grown considerably thanks to earlier investments from angel investors in the healthcare sector . Their team now consists of over twenty professionals , and has managed to bring in dozens of clients , including GGZ Rivierduinen , St. Jans Gasthuis hospital and the Gooise Meren municipality .  