1 in 5 adults in the United States suffering from hearing loss . The World Health Organization puts the global number of those with disabling hearing loss at about 360 million people . Given the size of this health concern , its no wonder startups are popping up to address hearing loss in a variety of ways . Here 's a rundown on a few of the most prominent startups in the hearing impairment space . Since opening its doors in 2012 , this New York startup has saved consumers over $ 40 million with its direct - to - consumer selling model : They offer " sleek hearing aid models and collaborations with iconic influencers . " And since they 're selling to people directly , they need to be able to help their customers identify their exact level of hearing loss . Audicus 's new hearing assessment tech will allow users to check up on their hearing online , for free . It 's a great first stop for anyone concerned about their hearing . If you 're hearing impaired , you know what it 's like to attend an event -- college lecture , graduation ceremony , or church service -- and not have a clue what anyone 's saying . This Korean startup offers a voice - operated typing and transmission service that can be used to provide real - time captioning for a hearing impaired person . Sovoro will support 80 languages , thanks to its reliance on Google 's engine to take its notes . These two biotech startups have the same goal : Developing drugs to remedy hearing loss . David Lucchino , CEO of Frequency Therapeutics , gave some insight on the problem in an article for MedCity News : " It 's noise pollution . There was a great study about people who were born and spent their lives on Easter Island and people who left . The people who stayed had great hearing well into their 60s . The people exposed to noise pollution had the same kinds of hearing loss we see every day . " Frequency hopes to stimulate the correct cells in order to jumpstart healthy tissues that can help people hear . Decibel is looking at even more ways to return the inner ear to its former self -- and with their $ 52 million Series A a few years back , they should have plenty of runway . Ava pioneers a new level of accessibility for the deaf or hearing impaired . When at a family dinner or small gathering , the app can be downloaded by everyone and the voice - recognition software will translate the conversation into a series of text - message like notes , keeping any hearing impaired group member in the loop and able to respond in real time .