The sharing economy has come a long way over the last few years : a report on the sector in NSW released by Deloitte has found that revenues in the sector grew from an estimated $ 1.6 billion in 2014 - 15 to $ 2.6 billion in 2015 - 16 . The number of people earning income from these platforms has also doubled from 45,000 to 92,400 as acceptance of and trust in the sharing economy grows . Looking to take advantage of this growth is DishMe , a peer - to - peer home cooking startup founded by Pushpinder Bagga , Simran Gambhir , Richard Fleming , and Eric So . The idea for DishMe came over a year ago when Bagga found himself struggling with his health due to what his doctor described as " a lethal combination of poor diet and long work hours " . " Unable to cook , on top of my demanding work schedule , I regularly gave in to takeout food and packaged meals from supermarket shelves . Keeping the cautions of my doctor in mind if I continued with this bad habit , I had an idea of posting an ad to my community bulletin board for healthy homemade meals throughout the week , " Bagga explained . " I received four offers from local chefs who I exchanged texts with to collect food . Getting bored of eating the limiting food they were offering , I began requesting meals with particular taste preferences and specific ingredients . Two chefs dropped out and two remained for the challenge . I eventually told my friends about this and they began ordering custom meals as well , birthing the idea and concept of DishMe . " As the DishMe team came together , Bagga said one of the biggest challenges for the startup has been determining a specific target audience , and then communicating to this audience the services and products it 's offering . After conducting multiple trials to validate the concept , DishMe partnered with an insurance provider to start operating as a business . The startup 's defined target audience is comprised of busy 40-something professionals who struggle with finding the time to cook and maintain a healthy lifestyle . " Since the market for personal chefs is typically exclusive and expensive , our current proposals dominate the competition both in price and convenience . In respect to our value proposition , we are the world 's first online marketplace of its kind and prioritise our customers by assessing local chefs with local sustainable , healthy , limitless and efficient food , " Bagga said . According to Bagga , DishMe 's focus is not profiting off customers but rather prioritising the " uniqueness and individuality " of each of its customers . " Unlike typical businesses who centre in profiting the business by profiting off customers , DishMe efforts in prioritising on the uniqueness and individuality in each of our customers . Bagga said the startup has over 150 chefs registered in Sydney awaiting launch . After registering online , DishMe takes a chef through a vetting process including an interview , " taste approval " , and kitchen inspection . The startup then takes photos and video to assist in the " branding " of a chef . DishMe also sets prices for chefs in order to maintain consistency and ensure a level playing field of sorts on its platform , ensuring chefs are focused on serving quality food rather than fixated on price , Bagga explained . Consumers , meanwhile , will be able to sign up and note their dietary requirements , then be taken to the marketplace where they can browse chefs in their area and chat to those they are interested in before placing an order . DishMe will take a 20 percent cut of every transaction . Consumers will be able to pick up the food themselves or have it delivered by the chef ; Bagga said the startup will look to partner with a logistics company in the future to facilitate delivery . DishMe recently made its way into the latest intake of the H2 Accelerator run by H2 Ventures , which has traditionally been fintech - focused . In a blog post calling for applications earlier this year , founding partner of H2 Ventures Toby Heap explored the different spaces the accelerator would be looking to explore this year , with peer - to - peer marketplaces one of them . " P2P marketplaces such as Uber , AirBnB and Freelancer have fundamentally shaken entire industries to their cores by shifting the power dynamic from intermediaries to consumers . We consider that the defining feature of these marketplace businesses is that they allow an efficient and convenient financial transaction between peers , without requiring a traditional trusted intermediary , " Heap wrote . " Two sided marketplaces also have the distinct advantage that they have built in network effects providing potential durable competitive advantages . We especially like marketplaces that leverage consumer collective bargaining as part of their approach . " It was his cofounder Gambhir that advocated for applying to the accelerator , Bagga said , and two months in , DishMe is benefiting from the advice and networking links of the program , as well as the $ 100,000 in seed funding . The support from the accelerator will surely come in handy , with DishMe trying to make headway in a crowded space ; it 's competing with everything from restaurants to delivery services such as Deliveroo and Foodora , ' meal box ' companies like Marley Spoon and HelloFresh , and peer - to - peer home cook startup FoodByUs , launched last year by a team including former Menulog managing director Gary Munitz . FoodByUs and now DishMe are following in the footsteps of a number of similar startups that have found the model difficult to scale : there was YourFork , which launched and operated for a short time in 2013 ; Welcome Over , which allows users to effectively host dinner parties for neighbours in ' pop up home restaurants ' but does not currently show any listings ; and Neighbour Flavour , which has yet to properly launch . As it progresses through the H2 Accelerator program , Bagga said the startup is focused on launching in and growing throughout Sydney .