For college students , going to class and reading about building a business is one thing , but having the opportunity to actually build one of their own is quite another . Sure there are plenty of business courses that students can take to up their game , but having a program completely dedicated to livening their entrepreneurial spirit will take things to a different level . And now , it 's happening at Arizona State University . Draper University and Arizona State University have partnered up to bring up to 80 students into Silicon Valley and give them immense resources and knowledge about entrepreneurship from a bevy of experts and business leaders . And for those students who are concerned about missing classes for the program , not to worry . This program gives each student 15 college credits as well as a certificate of entrepreneurship . ASU and Draper University are no strangers to innovation . The U.S. News and World Report ranks ASU # 1 in Innovation . Tim Draper , after whom Draper University is named , has been a leader in educating and empowering aspiring entrepreneurs with innovative approaches . Draper University has branded itself as " a boarding school for entrepreneurs , " and has graduated over 500 students with a total of 280 companies started and $ 51.4 million raised . The program , titled " Semester in Silicon Valley " , will give each student the opportunity to pitch their new startups at the end to dozens of venture capitalists that are ready to open their wallets toward any attractive prospects . Startups that have gone through the Draper University program have raised over $ 200,000 at the demo day . The curriculum in the program will consist of five upper - level courses at ASU ranging from " Mobile and Web Programming " to " Immersive Entrepreneurial Experience . " Students will also get coaching and mentoring by Peak Performance Educator Gina Kloes as well as have the opportunity to tour the headquarters of Google and Tesla . At Phoenix Startup Week , Tim Draper told stories about his investment with Tesla , Elon Musk , Draper U , SpaceX , innovation , disrupting industies and more , with moderator : Michael Hool , Managing Partner Hool Coury Law .   Read more about the Phoenix startup ecosystem here at Tech . Co Photo : Flickr / Kevin Dooley