Helpling , one of Europe 's leading platforms for booking a vetted and insured cleaner online , announced today the extension of its business model . Customers will now be able to book additional household services such as window cleaning , furniture assembling and painting work . With this move , Helpling aims to reposition itself as the leading platform for booking household services online . The new services will first launch across 15 German cities including Berlin , Munich , Frankfurt and Cologne . The global launch will take place later this year , with the first country set to be the United Kingdom . After several months of trialing and testing , customers are now able to book multiple household services , including window cleaning , furniture assembling , carpet and upholstery cleaning , clearing out and painting work . Over the course of the next few months , the choice of services will be continuously extended . In addition to partnering with self - employed cleaners , Helpling is now working with more than 150 partner companies . Helpling stated that it is selecting such partners based on quality , reliability and price . This will save customers a time - consuming comparison , where they will now be able to book a service for a fixed price on their desired date through secure online payment . Partner companies will benefit by saving customer acquisition costs as well as handing over all matters such as invoicing and customer service . Benedikt Franke , Co - Founder of Helpling stated : " Searching for a reliable window cleaner or painter has traditionally been an inconvenient and frustrating task . You typically have to wait weeks in order to book an appointment and the estimated costs rarely meet the final price . Our aim is to rearrange and improve another non - transparent market through technology . By the extension of our business model , Helpling is firmly positioning itself as Europe 's leading brand for household services . " Philip Huffmann , Co - Founder of Helpling added : " The experience of bringing together 10,000 cleaners with over 100,000 households , as well as the technological maturity of the platform , offer the ideal basis for this strategic step . With the extension of the business model , Helpling creates a marketplace , which mediates various household services from a single source . " Helpling was founded by Benedikt Franke , Philip Huffmann and Rocket Internet in January 2014 . Since then the company has raised EUR 56.5 million from investors such as Mangrove Capital Partners , Phenomen Ventures , Point Nine Capital , Lukasz Gadowski , Lakestar and Kite Ventures . Helpling is active in 9 countries in 3 continents : Australia , France , Germany , Ireland , Italy , the Netherlands , Singapore , UAE and UK . In 2015 we mentioned Helpling as one of " 5 German startups to look out for in 2015 " .