Since 2014 , the Creative Startups accelerator has supported a wide range of creative entrepreneurs that went on to create 144 new jobs , raise $ 6.5 million , and bring in $ 7.9 million in new revenues . Those are great numbers for an accelerator that started in one area of New Mexico . And by expanding their licensed product into North Carolina and Kuwait , and adding a pre - accelerator lab , they expect even more positive outcomes . Back in 2007 , the organization was founded in Santa Fe , New Mexico by Alice Loy and Tom Aageson and was known as the Global Center for Cultural Entrepreneurship . Since molded into the nonprofit Creative Startups and fostering a few years of successful accelerator cohorts in Albuquerque , they realized that there were many companies who needed pre - accelerator assistance , so they put together a lab for early stage creative ideas , the applications just closed on the first labs . " We wanted to help companies get ready to apply to an accelerator , maybe not ours , but whatever program they 'd be right for . " Says Julia Youngs , Program Manager for Creative Startups . It 's that focus on keeping things flexible and creative that is becoming a success for Creative Startups . For example , a representative from Kuwait approached Creative Startups to see about implementing the program there , but not for just any creative businesses . Kuwait has a burgeoning community of restaurants and food , and they felt that was the best use of a Creative Startups accelerator , so ' Savor : Everything Food ' was born . " We are n't about just a cookie cutter image of what we do everywhere . Every situation and location is different and we need to make sure we 're addressing those differences , " said Youngs . Want to hear more about the Creative Economy ? Check out the panel discussion at SXSW , Rise of the Creative Economy Across Sectors , on Tuesday , March 13th at 5 pm , where one of the panelists will be Julia Youngs of Creative Startups . If you 're an Albuquerque ( or surrounding area ) creative , the accelerator applications open in May.