The on - demand economy presents a chicken - or - the - egg conundrum : Did consumer need for instant gratification give rise to on - demand everything ? Or did the emergence of companies like Lyft , Postmates , and Blue Apron make people hungry to have their every whim satisfied at a moment 's notice ? On - demand companies are transforming our world in major and minor ways . MIT 's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory found that Lyft 's and Uber 's ride - sharing services could decrease the number of cars on the road by 75 percent . Fewer vehicles on the road means reduced traffic , lowered carbon emissions , and potentially fewer crashes . Not every on - demand business is saving the planet or people , but the market trend has changed how we buy groceries , hire dog walkers , and book trips . Most people 's daily needs and desires can now be fulfilled with a few taps -- and almost no human interaction . People have become so accustomed to the convenience of on - demand services that they take the complex technology powering them for granted . These seamless experiences are powered by integrative application programming interfaces , or APIs ; on - demand apps only work when these interfaces harmonize . On - demand apps ca n't function without real - time loops . For example , ride - sharing services update drivers , passengers , and dispatchers on each other 's progress from the moment a ride is hailed until it 's paid . In - app messages , SMS texts , and push notifications enable that synchronization , and each function relies on its own API . Fortunately , developers do n't have to build alert infrastructures or worry about compatibility . The notification services handle the heavy lifting , including compliance and security standards . Developers would be wise to weave various APIs into their apps to ensure users have consistently reliable experiences . The proliferation of APIs has allowed startups and developers in emerging markets to ride the on - demand wave . They might start with fewer resources than companies in the U.S. or Europe , but developers can use integrative APIs to build secure , feature - rich apps at a low cost . Three technologies have been pivotal in this transformation : Commerce - based APIs such as Braintree and Stripe facilitate easy payments for developers and users . Their simple interfaces allow customers to provide credit or debit card information once and then check out with a single click . Developers can easily integrate these APIs into their apps , knowing payments are transferred across secure platforms . Commerce APIs offer several different payment setups , including subscription and one - off options . The low barrier to entry levels the playing field for startups and established brands in emerging markets .   Almost every on - demand service today uses maps . Mapping APIs such as Mapbox provide a suite of features for developers who want to enable real - time navigation and map functionality within their apps . Users love tracking the progress of orders in real time , and people fulfilling those orders need features that provide delivery locations and directions . Mapbox provides directions , traffic , and estimated arrival times while enabling developers to build interactive maps for end users . Front - end frameworks such as React and Angular2 are flexible , easy to manipulate , and fully customizable . These platforms offer numerous user interface elements so developers can create responsive , reliable experiences . They 're also compatible with a range of devices and operating systems . As new devices flood these markets , apps must be able to accommodate the platforms consumers embrace . At a time when consumers have gourmet meals and personal drivers at their fingertips , companies must be ready to deliver instantly and provide excellent customer experiences . APIs allow them to do that , further entwining tech in the on - demand era .