DeakinCo , the commercial arm of Deakin University , has partnered with Cann10 Australia to launch the Medicinal Cannabis Leadership Program in Melbourne , an education program for medicinal cannabis . The program aims to further the growth of Australia 's medicinal cannabis industry by bringing together both science and industry leaders in the space from across Australia , the US , Europe , and Israel to help participants understand both the scientific and commercial aspects of the industry . It will take participants through a series of key knowledge areas , including history and sociology , agriculture and genetics , extraction and manufacture , biochemical science , legislation and regulation , and commerce and research and development . Consisting of lectures , workshops , and webinars , the program will be led by Dr Henry Pinskier , chair of the John Curtin Research Centre ; Professor John Rosenberg , former Senior Deputy Vice - Chancellor at La Trobe University ; and director Rhys Cohen , an industry expert . Among those delivering lectures and workshops will be Dr David Meiri , an assistant professor at the Technion Israel Institute of Technology ; Mara Gordon , founder of Aunt Zelda 's and Calla Spring Wellness ; and Phil Warner , managing director of Ecofibre . Professor Jon Watson , dean of the School of Medicine Faculty of Health at Deakin University , said , " It is with great satisfaction that I am able to endorse Cann10 's unique approach that takes in basic biomedical science , agriculture and cultivation , and also entrepreneurship . This is very unusual , but also fit for purpose . " The launch of the program comes at a busy time for the Australian medicinal cannabis sector ; the use of medical cannabis for patients with chronic or painful illnesses was made legal under the Narcotic Drugs Amendment Act last year , with supply coming from a Victorian cultivation site and import into Australia on a case - by - case basis . With regulators coming around , local accelerator BuddingTech last month announced a partnership with global cannabis software and POS solutions company Guardian Data Software that will see GDS clients leverage BuddingTech 's analytical research and consultancy services , with the two organisations to also work together on new educational and research programs . It follows a rush of medicinal cannabis companies launching on the ASX . One of the latest to make its debut was Israeli startup eSense - Lab , which has created technology to ' reverse engineer ' the production of a plant 's terpene profile . With an initial focus on the cannabis plant , the company produces a product that resembles cannabis in both its smell and taste and medicinal benefits . The Medicinal Cannabis Leadership Program will be one of the first programs run by DeakinCo , which launched through the merger of Deakin University 's workforce capability development business , DeakinPrime , and its credentialing business , DeakinDigital , last month . DeakinCo looks to provide a " modern , flexible approach to learning in the workplace to enhance workforce capability " . Simon Hann , CEO of the new entity , said , " Our user - centric approach and innovations in credentialing , combined with our link to Deakin University put us in a unique position as the only learning and professional development partner with end - to - end capability enhancement offerings for workplaces . "