AgriTech platform , GreenFingers Mobile ( GFM ) has announced equity seed investment from The Hivos Food & Lifestyle Fund , to the tune of EUR70 000 ( + R960 000 ) . The startup was established in 2015 as a partnership between SA business accelerator Impact Amplifier and mobile - first technology company , Mobenzi . It uses a Software - as - a - Service Android app to provide management and finance to over 5000 smallholder farmers across three African countries . " The GreenFingers solution is an important tool in enabling ethical supply chains , through the management of large , real - time data sets . We hope that GreenFingers can make it easier for large food companies to work with smallholder farmers , playing a significant role in poverty alleviation and reducing their impact on the environment , " writes the senior investment manager for The Hivos Food & Lifestyle Fund , Keith Wallace , in a press release to Ventureburn . " With seven billion people on the planet , and smallholder agriculture representing 70% of production in developing countries , efficient systems to manage food supply chains are imperative , " says CEO of GFM , Max Pichulik . " We believe that technology will play an increasing role in connecting farmers to markets efficiently , and meeting an increasing global demand for food . " " Our software solution replaces archaic paper - based management systems with real - time mobile solutions , bringing transparency to the supply chain , and enabling the efficient management and financing of smallholder / emerging farmers . " Pichulik says the investment will be used to further grow the company in other countries . " Building development and support capability to expand the product , the product 's features , and reach out to the rest of the continent , " he says regarding plans for the investment . Along with the funding announcement , the company 's software is now out of its beta stage as well . " The software went from Alpha to Beta over those two years , which were two growing seasons . Its length was due to both technical and operational issues related to ensuring we had a solution which would work in the field , " writes Pichulik in an exchange with Ventureburn . Over the past two years , Pichulik says the software has been tested in a range of areas , which also included overcoming a few hurdles . Some of these included " deploying smartphones and software into very rural locations where not only has no - one ever used such a device , and they ( and their management ) were running on paper - based systems " . The solution also only runs between six to nine months depending on the country , region , and crop , which is called the ' growing season ' . " This lengthened the beta testing phase , as its difficult to deploy features during a growing season , " Pichulik explained . Pichulik mention that troubleshooting was difficult as the team needed to narrow down software , network , device , or cloud hosting issues .