From a standing start a decade ago , Australia 's Startup landscape has grown exponentially over the last few years ; there are more resources devoted to helping new Startups get off the ground than ever before , with coworking spaces , incubators , and accelerators aplenty , targeting every niche imaginable . On the surface , it may seem like all these efforts are devoted to early stage businesses , but as more of the pioneering Startups in the ecosystem mature into Scaleups , the number of initiatives out there to support them is also growing . So what exactly is a Scaleup ? For Trent Bagnall , co - founder of Slingshot Accelerator , Scaleups are simply mature Startups . " They already have revenue , customers , a product that has product / market fit , and they generally have experienced growth of 30 percent year on year ; those are the minimum requirements , " he explained . Designed to support these businesses is the AVRO Scaleup program , run by Slingshot Accelerator in conjunction with corporate partner Qantas . Qantas is running both a Startup and a Scaleup program through AVRO to address strategic opportunities it has identified for collaboration with innovative businesses . These opportunities have been grouped according to five key themes : creating seamless journeys ; care beyond the air ; building connected platforms ; transforming for tomorrow ; and innovating without limits . The Scaleup program in particular has been designed to connect corporates with a new solution that is close to ready - made to help them fix a problem within their business , or allow them to tap into new markets quickly . Bagnall explained that through the AVRO program , Qantas is looking for businesses that " may still be in Startup - land " , but   need an incentivised partner like Qantas with a large customer base to help them scale quickly . The Scaleup program was developed after Slingshot Accelerator found that , while its Startup program does well to connect corporates with innovative products and services that might add value to their business at some point in the future , limiting applications to exclude more mature Startups also meant excluding Startups with significant potential that a corporate could work with immediately to reach a deal .   Though they may have some fine - tuning to do , Bagnall explained , a Scaleup with revenue and product / market fit is generally less in need of the services offered by an accelerator , such as advice around business modelling , branding , and pitch preparation , and more in need of a partnership deal with a corporate . Bagnall explained , " While the Startups are still getting their MVPs done and getting product / market fit , the corporate can already start working with a group of Scaleups that are ready to go . " Though a Startup probably adds a more " disruptive type " of innovation to a corporate 's business than a mature Scaleup , Bagnall admitted , they are also high risk ; a Scaleup with product / market fit means a higher probability of making a deal . With this in mind , the AVRO Scaleup program looks to help with the core problem facing Scaleups : the process of scaling . The goal of AVRO is to help the Scaleup and the corporate sign a Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) by the time the program wraps up . " As Startups know , trying to deal with a large corporate can be time wasting and messy - it can be lots of maybes , " Bagnall explained . " There 's this analogy about lots of cups of coffee ; often the Startup will reach out to the corporate to say , ' I think we 've got a great product ' , so they meet in a coffee shop and do a little demo , the corporate gets really excited , the Startup goes back and says , ' we 're going to sign a great deal with this large corporate ' , and it turns into six to 12 months of maybes and often just fades away . " Slingshot Accelerator calls its Scaleup program a ' Quick to No ' program , with the goal to help get Qantas and the Scaleup to an MoU in five meetings or less . The form that MoU takes can vary , whether it be a white label distribution agreement to Qantas 's existing customers or bringing the Scaleup on as a vendor to use its technology internally . To help both the Scaleup and the corporate get ready for this process , Slingshot Accelerator acts as a facilitator and does the heavy lifting . As Bagnall puts it , Slingshot Accelerator 's skillset lies in bringing the two different forces together . " There 's a different language and culture on both sides , " he said . Slingshot Accelerator will work with the Scaleup to ensure they have a solid value proposition for Qantas , then work with the internal business units at Qantas to ensure there is a fit and a demand for the Scaleup 's offering , adequate resourcing , and KPIs associated with its onboarding . With Slingshot Accelerator and Qantas aware that Scaleups are well and truly busy running their businesses , they are able to take part in the program remotely . This participation may be different from Scaleup to Scaleup , depending on the stage of their business and what they need . " There might be a couple of face to face meetings in Sydney , but there 's no requirement to be full time or part time , so it really opens the program up to Startups and Scaleups across the country and internationally . It 's a lower touch process , and we 're really trying to get outcomes with the least amount of time input as possible , " Bagnall said . Previous iterations of the Scaleup program have seen success , with healthtech Scaleup Curo Technologies a key example . Coming through the HCF Catalyst program , Slingshot Accelerator helped the Scaleup and HCF develop a commercial agreement that has seen the two work closely together over the last year , with HCF also later investing $ 1 million into the business . Of course , just because a Scaleup may have product / market fit , customers , and revenue does n't mean they might not need extra assistance ; those in need of a helping hand will also have access to the Avro Startup program , enabling them to tap into the wealth of skills and expertise in the mentor network . They will also have access to the full range of perks being given to participants , including $ 5,000 in flights redeemable from Qantas and Jetstar . Bagnall said , " It 's all about getting a real outcome at the end of the process . " You can find out more about the AVRO scaleup program here .