With all the attention surrounding outsourcing , some might be surprised that it 's lost a bit of steam recently . According to an Information Services Group study , traditional outsourcing fell 25 percent during the last quarter of 2016 , in comparison to the last quarter of 2015 . This dip , the industry 's largest since 2009 , raises important questions for small companies , most notably : Which tasks are worth keeping in house , and which ones should be doled out to the experts ? Most companies wait until a round of funding comes through before outsourcing . Accounting and HR can afford that , but needs like legal consultation should go external from day one , no matter how much capital you have on hand . Going external helps efficiency . Some entrepreneurs fear outsourcing could have adverse internal effects -- specifically , outsourcing could impact a company 's productivity . However , a Deloitte survey on global outsourcing positions outsourcing not only as an approach that does n't dampen productivity , but one that also sparks innovation , which can further boost productivity . Fifty - nine percent of survey respondents said outsourcing reduces costs , 47 percent believed it 's useful in finding unique ways to address capacity issues and 29 percent thought it boosts a company 's chances to scale globally . With those three variables looming large in the productivity of any growing company , these numbers point to outsourcing as a trend startups should buy into . It 's just a matter of figuring out how to make it work best for your company . Deciding when and what to outsource can seem tricky , but your primary objective should always be to keep production moving . These three tips can help your team make the most of outsourcing without losing any speed : 1 . Decide what 's a must - have . What can be outsourced successfully is occasionally a surprise . List what is -- and is n't -- mission - critical for your company , then decide on outsourcing from there . Slack founder Stewart Butterfield outsourced the workplace messaging app 's development -- and the creation of its logo and website -- to an agency . Butterfield and his team play - tested the design and tweaked it , based on feedback , before releasing it . Within two weeks of its release , Slack received 15,000 invitation requests ; and DMR covered Slack 's current stats , which showed the company at 5 million daily active users and counting . A great rule of thumb is for a startup team to have a clear understanding of what the company 's mission is so resources can be preserved for that work . Spending time on this process on the front end will get the ball rolling and free up time on the back end . 2 . Adopt an old - school mindset . Nothing beats a real - life recommendation when it comes to connecting with outsourced providers who can meet your needs without becoming a drain on the company . Our firm frequently receives referrals from startups that found out about us through other companies we 've worked with . Whether it 's at a conference , a shared workspace or a happy hour , face - to - face networking with other founders is invaluable . " Who are you using for _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ? " is an easy question to ask , and it may save you a lot of headaches in the long run . 3 . Leverage existing service providers . Once you find a high - quality outsourced service provider , remember that the company can frequently offer resources in areas beyond its specialty . Asking these service providers whom they work with can initiate unexpected solutions -- these service providers typically work across all industries because the operational foundations of many businesses are very similar . GitHub CIO Scott Chacon met the company 's CEO and co - founder , Chris Wanstrath , at a chance meetup in San Francisco . Upon hearing about Chacon 's knowledge of Git , Wanstrath brought him in as a consultant for what would eventually become Gist , a GitHub sharing feature . Outsourcing can create great opportunities for small companies without hampering their productivity . If they can determine when sending work out will work better than keeping it in - house , they can take advantage of the resources offered by the connections they already have and continue operating at a high frequency . Gadiel Morantes is the president at Early Growth Financial Services , which addresses the lack of on - demand financial support available to startups . With more than 15 years of experience in sales , marketing , and operations , Mo ...