The importance of diversity , particularly in startup ecosystems , is undeniable at this point . Not only does this kind of inclusion breed success in the long run , it also makes way for innovative ideas , different perspectives , and unique opportunities for founders , employees , and communities alike . Plus , the numbers just do n't lie when it comes to making diversity a priority in your ecosystem . " We have to quickly move from thinking that diversity is a charity case , and that the best person to do the job and minority groups are mutually exclusive , " said Felecia Hatcher , cofounder of Blacktech Week to Tech . Co . " No , it 's damn good business ! " While hiring minority employees is a step in the right direction , supporting minority entrepreneurs is the true indicator of progress on the diversity front . Despite a general lack of commitment to this progress in the tech world , steps are being made to improve , like the fact that black women are the fastest growing group of entrepreneurs in the world . So , where are these minority entrepreneurs coming from ? According to research from Expert Market , there are ten cities fostering diversity in the form of supporting minority entrepreneurs . With Houston leading the pack , these cities have many minority owned firms , a dearth of economic opportunities for minorities , low startup costs , high startup density , impressive opportunity share for new entrepreneurs , and a high rate of new entrepreneurs . As you take a look at the list below , there are a few notable takeaways . First off , apparently Texas is the place to be for minority entrepreneurs , as three cities from the Lone Star State are in the top ten . It 's also worth noting that , despite the high cost of starting up ( which is what landed it at number two ) , Miami boasts better numbers than any of them when it comes to supporting diversity . If you 're interested in learning more about where and how minority entrepreneurs are being supported , take a look at the infographic below and make a commitment to diversity in your ecosystem . It 's important . Read more about diversity here on Tech . Co  