  Technology has been transforming the educational world for the past few years . Every year , new edtech companies bring innovative products to the table -- from online certification platforms to websites that offer interactive learning apps . We 've seen a lot of well - established eLearning websites that do their part in nurturing the next generation . But this did n't stop innovators from introducing features that set the tone for the future of the edtech industry . Here are four of the most promising edtech startups that could become the key players : Working out of their dorm rooms as college freshman , Studypool founders Richard Werbe and Jimmy Zhong ironically skipped weeks of classes to reinvent how students learn through a concept called " Microtutoring . " CEO Richard Werbe explains , " Microtutoring breaks down conventional tutoring into smaller , more digestible pieces of learning . By eliminating the barrier of set - time tutoring sessions , students can master subjects more efficiently on a time interval tailored to their needs .   Typical sessions last one to 10 minutes but can take up to several hours depending on the student . "   Werbe emphasizes that learning is all about mastery , and Studypool 's mission is to make mastering a particular subject matter easier for students . He continues , " Think about when you were stuck on that tricky algebra question in high school and you called your smart friend for help . That was microtutoring ! Studypool is doing that times ten million . It 's like having thousands of friends that are professional tutors that can help 24/7 , on demand . By using today 's online technology , Studypool has created the infrastructure needed to support Microtutoring . " Studypool 's aggressive approach has made a splash on the Internet since its launch in 2014 as students discovered the appeal of Microtutoring . One early customer Daniel Zhang gave the website a glowing review : " I got help with a kinematic physics equation lying in bed in my dorm room at two in the morning ! "   Within a month of its launch , Studypool had thousands of users . Today the company has raised $ 2.3 million in seed funding , has helped over a million students , and offers services from over 40,000 verified tutors . Werbe reports that the platform is growing faster than ever and is seeing significant revenues . Other than reading books and gaining experience , accepting feedback is one of the best ways to learn . True , evaluating a student 's performance and providing assessments are normally for teachers . But with Peergrade , students can evaluate and grade each other 's work through peer assessment sessions . Launched in 2015 by co - founders David Kofoed Wind , Malthe Jorgensen , and Simon Lind , Peergrade 's original goal was to help teachers keep up with a growing number of students while still providing the close attention and fair evaluation they deserve . " Continuous budget limitations for educational institutions force teachers to teach larger classes and consequently cut back on the number of written assignments or grade more homework , " says David . " Letting students partake in the process of evaluating and giving feedback enables them to learn from the work of others . " The platform works by allowing teachers to create online assignments and specify the criteria for evaluation . As students hand in their work , it goes through other students for peer - assessment first . Once all feedback is given , the teacher can get a full overview of the session . Last year , Peergrade received a total of $ 300,000 in seed funding . It is now being used in major universities across Denmark and neighboring countries . Interested organizations can also use their service for free through their website . It 's no secret that a lot of students find history as one of the most boring subjects . Perhaps it 's due to the heavy reliance on thick textbooks and bland teaching methods available in the school system . Time Machine Tours -- an iOS app founded by Kyle Hudson in 2015 -- is set to forever change the way history is learned . Utilizing GPS technology , users can tell the exact location of photographers when they took historical photos . " History lessons are presented to them in big blocks of text and their eyes glaze over . Time Machine Tours lets kids access and experience history in a way they 've never been able to before , " says Hudson . The app offers tours that utilize augmented reality , with which users can hold their phones over the actual locations . This creates the illusion that makes users feel as if they 're staring into the past . Like it or not , it is a much more engaging way to learn history than reading in a classroom or library . Currently , Time Machine Tours is only available in selection locations -- namely New York , Chicago , Philadelphia , and Washington DC . New content is being added monthly with new locations , but for now , there 's no announcement of a major expansion or funding . ClassTag is a different kind of startup that focuses not on the students , but on the parent - teacher relationship . Everyone should be aware that it is both the parent and teacher 's job to foster learning minds . That 's why schools hold parent - teacher conferences that allow collaboration and create a better learning environment for students -- at home and in the classroom . Founded by Vlada Lotkina in 2015 , a Wharton MBA and former Fortune 500 executive , ClassTag 's main objective is to provide a classroom community . This utilizes the collective effort of teachers and parents in tending to the needs of the students . With the platform , teachers can organize events , schedule conferences , and launch newsletter campaigns to maintain open communication . " ClassTag 's mission is to help teachers engage parents in the classroom by handling the busy work , " says Lotkina . " Our service is carefully crafted to simplify logistics and communications issues in classrooms . " Currently , ClassTag is being used by leading private and public schools . According to Lotkina , the platform borrows from corporations the concept of getting employees involved in programs that match their interests , particularly in charity and volunteering events . Since parents highly value their children 's education , they are guaranteed to participate in opportunities provided by platforms like ClassTag . Ellie Martin is Co - founder of Startup Change Group . As author and writer , her works have been featured on Entrepreneur , Yahoo ! , Wisebread and AOL , among others . She currently splits her time between her home office in New York and Isr ...