Legal startups are disrupting the legal industry in a good way . These companies make it easier for lawyers , firms , business owners and regular people to navigate the legal industry . The top companies offering industry - changing products and services include : LawTrades aims to fix the broken law firm model . The company works with businesses in all stages : early , mid and late stage . The company works as an online marketplace , allowing for custom quotes via text message . The company 's on - demand legal service uses mobile messaging to cut costs and save consumers money . Businesses bootstrapping their way to success will find this service beneficial for : A few taps is all that 's needed to get in touch with a prominent lawyer . Clio is designed for lawyers . A cloud - based management software , tens of thousands of lawyers trust Clio to help them run their firm . The great thing about this solution is that law firms can stay connected and grow using the same scaling technology . The package offers : Professionally designed bills are created in minutes , and the software even connects directly to online accounting options , such as QuickBooks and Xero , to streamline a firm 's accounting . Ravel Law revolutionizes the way lawyers conduct research . The platform makes research and legal analytics a breeze while also ensuring the latest in big data is at the forefront of the legal profession . Legal professionals can extract a massive amount of legal data through the data services offering , and they can also gain access to : The company 's system works together with Harvard Law to provide the most robust research option to firms and their clients . Lexoo is a company based in the United Kingdom offering fixed quotes from handpicked lawyers in under 24 hours . All quotes are tailored , and you 'll be able to request 3 - 4 quotes on your job posting . Lawyers are checked to ensure only the most suitable legal professionals can provide you with legal assistance . A free , no - obligation call is offered from any lawyer chosen . Small businesses are the main users of the service , and they often seek help with : Users save as much as 46 percent on their services . There is no cost to the user when using the service . Rocket Lawyer may be too established to be considered a startup at this point , but the company 's services are a must - know for anyone needing legal services . The company 's robust services are offered for personal and business entities . The company has served over 7 million businesses , and users can : What 's neat is that the company offers monthly packages , which allows for : You can also make a slew of free legal documents on the company 's website that are legally reviewed to ensure that they protect your rights .