Silicon Valley is working on ways to change the way that we drive , eat , live , and now thanks to a new type of school , the way our children learn . The school is called AltSchool , and it 's the brainchild of a former Google executive , Max Ventilla . The school merges traditional education with the type of high - tech learning that you would expect from Silicon Valley . AltSchool has even funded itself like a startup , raising $ 170 million from investors like Mark Zuckerberg and Peter Thiel 's Founders Fund . Following is a transcript of the video : I 'm Max Ventilla , I 'm the founder and CEO of AltSchool . I had been at Google and left to start a company called Aardvark that they acquired in early 2010 . And at the same time my daughter was 2 years old and we were in the thick of thinking about preschool . My daughter is such a different person than I am and the world that she 's going to grow up in is so different than the world that I grew up in . That future is going to demand of her this ability to kind of constantly make her own path instead of , you know following a roadmap that 's given to her . And her education needs to prepare her for that . It is really hard to run a bad school , let alone a great school . And so to kind of manage that complexity , to manage that challenge , traditional schools have to simplify and they do that through making a number of assumptions . Like , the future is largely similar to the past or 10 year olds are pretty much the same . None of those assumptions turn out to be true . You know in AltSchool if you look at " What are the objectives that 10-year - olds are pursuing , " the vast majority of them are not 10-year - old objectives . There are things that an 11-year - old , or 12-year - old , or 13-year - old would be expected to work on and in other areas maybe they 're behind and you know they 're working at a 9-year - old or a 8-year - old level in some domain . Personalizing education is pretty easy to do on a screen . The problem is now kids are on a screen which is in many ways the last thing that you want . So the challenge for us is , how do you personalize education off of a screen ? A pillar of AltSchool and any school is assessment and assessment needs to be accurate , it needs to be actual , and it needs to be non - invasive . And that 's hard . How do you get a signal about what kids are learning and what they know and what they do n't know ? You know , not just once a week but once a day , once an hour , once a minute . And again that 's where technology can come in . You can allow kids to kind of naturally learn in an emergent way and you can give tools to teachers so that they can document in real time . We believe a generation from now , the best education can be the one that the most kids get , rather than the fewest kids get . That education will be intensely personal , it will be intensely offline , but it will tie back to a digital representation of what 's happening . So you 'll be able to use technology to be much more flexible , to be much more coordinated , to be much more rigorous , and allow an experience that , you know , in many ways looks totally un - technical . If you believe that to really be part of a solution , for you know , a very different education in the future versus now , you need to bring technology and great traditional education together . Kids are different . Even two 10 year old twins are different and we need to be able to meet each child where they are in terms of , not only how has their academic and non - academic learning progressed to that point but what interests them what motivates them what frustrates them and we are nowhere near the level of personalization that we aim to be . Follow Tech Insider : On Facebook