Picking apples may seem like a fun weekend activity , but it 's actually backbreaking manual labor . Abundant Robotics wants to help agricultural growers shoulder this task and today announced funding of $ 10 million , led by GV , to commercialize its apple - picking robot . Apple growers generate about $ 50 billion in revenue globally , yet the apple picking process hasn't undergone any significant change in the last 100 years , says Abundant Robotic 's cofounder and CEO , Dan Steere . " Today , agricultural workers pick apples wearing a bag with shoulder straps that can weigh between 45 to 60 pounds , " he told VentureBeat in an interview . " And the labor pool of folks that are willing to do this work is shrinking . " Enter the apple - picking robot . The initial idea sprang out of SRI International , which provided research funding alongside the Washington Tree Fruit Research Commission . Abundant Robotics spun out of SRI in 2016 to begin working on the final prototype . The robot uses computer vision to recognize ripe apples and a vacuum system to pick them -- its arms can reach the top of a tree . " Modern apple orchards use dwarf trees , which are supported by trellis structures that range from 10 to 14 feet tall , " said Steere . Agriculture workers will manage the robot remotely to pick the apples . Steer claims that although there is a lot of research interest in agricultural automation , Abundant Robotics is currently the only startup tackling this issue on a commercial level . Israel - based FFRobotics , however , is also working on a patented robotic fruit harvester . Broader agricultural automation includes Bosch 's weed - killing robot . New investors BayWa AG and Tellus Partners joined GV in today 's round . Existing investors Yamaha Motor Company , KPCB Edge , and Comet Labs also participated . Abundant Robotics will use the new capital to commercialize the technology and is targeting next year for the release . Steere would not disclose the price at this point . The startup targets the U.S. market and plans on applying the technology to other fruit - picking industries in the future . Based in Hayward , California , Abundant Robotics currently has eight employees .