" Fintech is n't about tech at all . It 's about data . " These words were spoken by Johan Bosini at the recent Techstars-4-A - Day event , which was held at the Rise hub in Cape Town . Bosini is no stranger to the startup scene and is currently involved with VC firm Quona Capital , as well as Switch2 Cover and Taking a Break . He 's most well known for his role in fintech startup Jumo as the managing director of digital financial services . Before digging into his eight points , Bosini gave a small anecdote about Jumo in its infancy ( which initially started out as another company called AFB ) . " Jumo was an ' accident ' , " he said ( having pivoted from its original concept ) and went on to mention that the company ( AFB ) lost US$ 29-million during its initial days due to ' arrogance ' in not understanding a new market . Since then , Jumo has grown into a massive fintech company , that has even attracted top employees from Magento and Barclays Africa . The company launched credit cards in Nairobi without any insurance against them , with the initiative eventually failing . " The fraud was remarkable . You could buy a national ID for R20 . " They approached a potential partner , who apparently threw the credit card back at them across the table , unimpressed by the idea . He was asked where customers would keep the card if they did n't have wallets . Instead , he wanted a mobile wallet due to the increase in cellphone penetration . It took two weeks for Jumo to build the initial proof of concept and from there the company truly came into itself . Bosini then went on to talk about the rules for building a startup , which are : The last bit of interesting information from Bosini was due to a question from the audience . When asked why Bosini has been running so many companies , he replied : " I liked to build things and not maintain things . " " I 'll never leave a job after one year . I 'll leave after two , " he added . He says he re - evaluates his position and happiness after a year and nine months and evaluates life in two - year chunks . Update : clarification