For anyone who 's watched the Oscar - nominated film Zero Dark Thirty , or in fact just about any clip of police on the news recently , you 'll know that nearly every event is now captured on body cameras . While traditionally this video is recorded to a small device , the market has of late seen a move towards live streaming , allowing for quicker response times in both local and national operations . Innovating with data technology in this space is international startup Elsight , which recently made the move to Perth ahead of listing on the Australian Stock Exchange ( ASX ) . Focused on defence and security , the startup has developed the ' Multichannel ' , a portable communications system which is able to send and receive encrypted data from any point in the world . Within the defence industry , which the device was initially developed for , the Multichannel allows personnel to send data , such as a video stream , from remote areas using a interchangeable combination of connection and security methods . Elsight was founded back in 2009 by Nir Gabay and Roee Kashi who , having worked within the Israeli intelligence and military ranks , sought to develop a technology that would grant special forces in the field a fast and secure way to send a receive files . Previously used exclusively across Israel and held back from international distribution , the end of last year saw the startup admitted the rights to sell the Multichannel globally - however Elsight tuned down the level of encryption for international clients . Simply put , the security level would now sit at a " five out of ten " , said Elsight 's Perth - based director , Nathan Barbarich . " [ However ] , at the same time we separated the encryption technology from the main software , meaning that if we were to sell the box to , say , the CIA in the US , they could add their own encryption software on the top of it to bring it back to a high level , " added Barbarich . Following the release , Elsight 's now looking to apply its secure technology to the commercial sector globally , and offer local police forces and businesses an effective way to transfer secure data while on the go . " Commercial uses will be things such as body cameras on police , so if a suspect is running down somewhere and [ the broadcast signal ] loses connection , what we 're able to do is ensure that connection and actually stream the entire thing while recording it , " explained Barbarich . If you 're visualising this as a group of people sitting in a darkened room in a police station watching 60-plus video streaming screens , according to Barbarich , you 're spot on , considering the Multichannel comes with software used to decrypt or encrypt data as well as facilitate live streaming . If an operator then focuses in a particular video screen , the software will then increase the bandwidth , or streaming capacity , of that particularly Multichannel device , so it can transmit at the highest possible quality . As for the physical device itself , Barbarich described it as a " small box , the size of a router " , similar to the one you receive from your internet provider , equipped with short antennas on the side . Inside the device are four SIM card slots , which fit a SIM similar to the one you would find in your average smartphone , with each used to power the signal connection . Barbarich explained that current remote communication technology , such as that of Elsight 's commercial competitor LiveU - which is mostly used by television networks to broadcast their cameras from outside locations - use a signal SIM card to broadcast connections . " [ The Multichannel 's ] very useful if you 're in a poor connection area , since rather than using one SIM card to send a file , you can multiply that by at least four . So if you have 1 megabyte ( MB ) upload , you can times that by four to become 4 MB upload , " explained Barbarich . ADSL , WAN and Wifi are also inbuilt into the Multichannel , meaning it can also connect with the typical ethernet cable you would find attached to most computers , or through a Wifi network . On top of that , and sitting as one of the more expensive options , the device is also able to send data through satellite . With these connection methods in mind , Barbarich explained the Multichannel 's algorithm will calculate which network to connect to , based on strength and availability . This means that if the device moves to a remote area with no Wifi or global system for mobile communications ( GSM ) such as 3 G or 4 G , it can connect to a satellite , then switch back when it detects a GSM network . Other features to ensure stability include the ability for the device to reduce the file size based on the quality of the connection - think Netflix reducing the quality of a video from HD to 480p if your internet 's performing slowly . Multichannel boxes can also connect together in a " line " to power a stronger connection . " It 's [ also ] clever enough to know that if it has one Telstra sim , one Optus sim and one Vodaphone sim , in which case it 'll use the connection that 's strongest , and also the cheapest in that area , then change between them , " said Barbarich . To ensure security , data is sent in four individually encrypted and randomly sized " jigsaw puzzle " pieces , which are then distributed separately between the different available networks . " That way if someone manages to catch part of the data on its way , they have nothing . You do n't have three quarters of the file , you have three quarters of nothing , " said Barbarich . Elsight is planning to raise $ 6.5 million to complete a reverse takeover on the ASX . Once this is done , funding will go towards expanding the startup 's marketing and sales resources , building international partnerships , and undertaking research to build out the Multichannel technology .