Shortly after the Brexit vote in the UK , France took over the position as the world 's fifth largest economy . The " Grande Nation " has a very vital startup ecosystem and with Paris one of the leading startup hubs in Europe . Given that France itself represents quite a big market , many French startups still tend to build products and services for their home market first ( or only ) instead of building international companies right from the start . Nevertheless , France already " produced " quite a significant number of tech success stories . Companies like BlaBlaCar , Criteo , Deezer and Dailymotion were all created in France . In the beginning of this year we took a close look at the French startup scene with the goal to provide you with a list of 10 promising startups to watch in 2017 . All of the startups we 're listing below were founded within the last two years and each one of them is -at least in our view- heading towards a successful future . talent.io aims to provide the simplest way for software engineers to find great jobs in innovative companies . Over 10,000 developers and 1000 companies ( including Deezer , Blablacar , Parrot , Zalando and N26 ) have already signed up on the platform and hundred of offers are made every week to software engineers looking for their next dream job . talent.io was founded in 2015 and is headquartered in Paris . The young company also operates in Lyon , London , and Berlin . talent.io secured a substantial amount of seed funding from well known investors like Alven Capital , Elaia Partners and Ventech . BEEKAST is an application that allows you to interact live with a presentation . The goal of the Paris - based startup is to provide the best solution to make your original presentations moments of exchange and collaboration . There is no need to download it ahead of time . BEEKAST allows you to instantly access a feed of comments and contributions such as polls , quizzes , and surveys created by the speaker or event organizer for audience participants to respond and interact during the presentation . All of the contributions can easily be projected by the speaker on his or her smartphone . Founded in 2015 , BEEKAST already was able to raise more than $ 3 million in venture capital . Agricool is building a sustainable food system by growing local , tasty and pesticide - free fruits and vegetables for everyone . To achieve this goal , the Paris - based startup created a paradise for fruits and vegetables in recycled shipping containers . That means the best lighting , temperature , irrigation , and air quality . In just 35 m2 Agricool can produce the same amount of food as 4000 m2 of traditional farmland . Founded in 2015 , the startup does this with no pesticides , no transportation , and 100% renewable energy . Agricool so far secured about $ 4.3 million in funding . Recast . AI is a collaborative natural language platform for developers . The Paris - based startup aims to teach machines how to understand humans . With Recast . AI you can build your own conversational bot . With more than 5,000 developers using the platform who have created more than 8,000 bots in less than 10 months , Recast . AI capitalizes on this technological and user experience expertise by assisting businesses wishing to implement new interfaces powered by conversation . Founded in September 2015 , Recast . AI was already able raise about EUR2 millions in seed funding . Invivox is a worldwide medical platform connecting medical experts and doctors for in situ ( inside the OR ) trainings in 1 to 1 ( or in small group ) , for all medical specialties . By setting up these practical trainings between doctors all over the world Invivox contributes the ultimate benefit of the patients . The Pessac - based startup aims to recreate the " companionship " between doctors . Founded in 2015 , Invivox so far secured about EUR1.2 million in venture capital . Sqreen is an automated and real - time security solution for web and app developers . The startup provides protection against most common vulnerabilities , such as SQL injections , cross - site scripting or code injection . Founded in 2015 an headquartered near Paris , Sqreen is a SaaS protection service that installs in 30 seconds without source code modification or traffic redirection . So far , the promising startup secured roughly $ 2.3 million in seed funding . PayFit : By using the software - as - a - service solution of the Paris - based startup PayFit , paying employees has never been easier . PayFit allows SMEs to easily manage the pay and leave of their employees . No specific knowledge in payroll is required . All the employer needs to do is answer a few simple questions and the pay sheets are generated automatically . Founded in 2015 , PayFit closed a Series A funding round of EUR5 million in October of 2016 . Right now , PayFit is only available in French , but the company plans to launch in 3 - 4 European countries in the coming months . Qonto : The Paris - based FinTech startup provides an online banking service that allows entrepreneurs , startups and SMEs to create an account in less than 5 minutes . With Qonto you can instantly receive an IBAN and get started to manage your company 's physical and digital business cards and perform your day to day operations . Founded in 2016 , Qonto will enter into beta phase in March and become available to a broader audience by the a few weeks later . In the beginning of this year , Qonto raised $ 1.7 million in seed funding from Alven Capital , well known business angels , as well as from Valar Ventures , the venture capital fund backed by Peter Thiel . Heek is a conversational website builder which helps individuals create their website by chatting over text and answering questions . The platform has a conversational interface where chat bots asks questions about the users , the type of business they have , and their sites . Heek is easy - to - use and also offers a variety of templates where users can choose for their websites . The Paris - based startup was officially founded in 2016 and secured about EUR700 K in seed funding . Exotec Solutions is a promising French robotics startup , which recently launched an order preparation system powered by a fleet of collaborative mobile robots . The startup 's centralized intelligence system coordinates both mobile robots and humans perfectly . The Paris- and Lille - based startup was founded in 2015 and by the end of 2016 it raised EUR3.3 million from 360 Capital Partners , Breega Capital and several other investors . By the way : If you 're a corporate or investor looking for exciting startups in a specific market for a potential investment or acquisition , check out our Startup Sourcing Service !