The CuePath team is developing the startup at Techstars Seattle . ( From left : Engineer Yagnik Vadher , Co - founder Ivan Spogreev , Co - founder Victor Lesau , Product Marketing Manager Jeff Nider , and Engineer Walt Sacuta . CuePath Photo )   After witnessing his grandmother 's trying health scares caused by mismanaging her pills , Victor Lesau decided to put his engineering background to work . He and his friend Ivan Spogreev were kicking around business ideas , as they often do , when they landed on CuePath Innovation . They envisioned a system that would help seniors and their caregivers stay on top of their medication using an internet - connected pill box and a mobile app . " We decided that this was where we wanted to keep the momentum going -- we built prototypes , found strategic investors and brought in core team members with a similar passion to help the aging population live a more comfortable life with the help of technology , " Lesau said . They launched the Vancouver , B.C .- based startup in 2015 and have been validating the product through interviews with potential customers . CuePath is currently working through the Techstars Seattle 2017 accelerator and plans to roll out pilot products in the U.S. in Seattle and the surrounding region this year . We caught up with Lesau for this Startup Spotlight , a regular GeekWire feature . Continue reading for his answers to our questionnaire . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " CuePath Innovation is a medication reminder and monitoring service connected with a popular medication blister pack . " Inspiration hit us when : " My grandmother had unexpected doctor and emergency room visits due to pill mismanagement several times a year . With multiple chronic conditions and more than 10 unique pills per day , it was difficult for her to get it right . She even used popular disposable multi - drug blister packs pre - filled by a pharmacist to keep the medications organized , but still landed in the doctor 's office . This affected the quality of her life and our family 's . The same risk falls on over 35 million North American seniors who suffer from two or more chronic conditions . While thinking about this problem , we were inspired to create CuePath Innovation . " VC , Angel or Bootstrap : " We decided to bootstrap through our first pilots , then raised an angel round with a strategic partner . We want to take CuePath Innovation to the national market and then global expansion , so we have a plan for further VC - backed financing later . " Our ' secret sauce ' is : " Existing solutions tend to have ' too much tech ' and learning for a senior . We remove these barriers by utilizing packaging that people are already familiar with , while seamlessly integrating into a pharmacy 's workflow . " The smartest move we 've made so far : " It 's been important for us to spend the right amount of time to find a strategic investor . We did n't want to rush . We also want to be thoughtful about how we hire . Bringing in core team members that are experts in our field while being a great addition to the culture we 're building is at the top of our priority list . " The biggest mistake we 've made so far : " Relying on one vendor and their timeline for delivering key pieces of our projects has been tedious at times . We learned quickly to have multiple avenues of choice available for vendor management and contingencies . " Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : " We appreciate Bezos ' evergreen approach and the way he puts profits back into developing new initiatives . We would have loved learning from his WOW customer success experience . " Our favorite team - building activity is : " We have a lot of interests , but a great meal is often enough to bring us together for a good discussion . " The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : " Thoughtful problem solvers that are self - aware of their strengths and opportunities . " What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : " Find the problem you are passionate about and really pissed off with . Find and inspire a good friend to solve it with you . Bring in additional people to cover the expertise gaps , and go fix it together . " Editor 's note : GeekWire is featuring each of the companies in the Techstars Seattle 2017 accelerator as they prepare for their Demo Day April 19 .