The world has never been more connected than it is right now . With modern technology , countries all over the world are , quite literally , at our fingertips . Why then does it seem so hard to spread the word about something as simple as , for example , the company picnic on Saturday , the new HR policy changes , or that big new client the sales team has been courting for months ? Good office communication flow flow boils down to what I call , the " four Ps " -- portions , packaging , placement and point - in - time . In other words , you 've got to pass the message at the right time , in the right place , and in nicely packaged , digestible bites . A year ago , my mobile app and web development studio , STRV , had fewer than 50 employees all working out of the same office , and our weekly company - wide meeting was the most effective way to distribute news . Today , we are a team of nearly 150 , working out of five offices , in two countries , and in three different time zones . Understandably , my employees do n't want to wait for a company - wide meeting to get the latest updates on the projects we 've landed or the new startups we 're working with . They want the information immediately -- in nicely packaged , digestible bites , and I do n't blame them . Here 's what each of the four P 's can look like in your own business : You ca n't dump a ton of information on people at once . That 's not how office communication works .   Odds are they 're not going to read it all , let alone digest what they 've read . So , first things first , figure out what your employees want to know . Then , dole out that information in bite - sized chunks . It goes without saying that people will be more inclined to at least skim a memo , email , or flyer if the subject matter interests them . One area that most interests my employees , for example , is the projects we 're working on . We have a database with all this information , which is accessible to everyone at the company , but , really , who 's going to take the time to look through that ? Instead , we pick two projects each week to feature around the office with relevant , bullet - pointed information on each . The technique has proven very effective at keeping employees informed , but not overwhelmed . Information needs to be easily digested . Your employees are busy people , so forget about long paragraphs . Instead , make your message structured , short and to - the - point . Big pictures are attention - grabbers , as are colorful , eye - catching fonts and big headlines . In fact , visual elements can often drive home a message better than a bunch of text . It 's as simple as that , so get on it now . Put some serious thought into where you will place company information . Bulletin boards may seem like a good choice , but they 're often in overlooked locations . Emails , on the other hand , can easily be ignored . As I mentioned earlier , company - wide meetings are good platforms for big announcements , but may have a tendency to run long and be overwrought with needless information that employees generally tune out . If you want your team to actually absorb the information you 're giving them , then feature news in places where it might actually get read . We tape company announcements , including project information , around the kitchen , giving employees a chance to multitask while waiting for their morning cup of coffee . Another prominent reading location : the bathroom stalls ( no joke -- I took a survey ) . We will soon also be equipping our offices with multiple closed - circuit TV monitors that will continuously broadcast text - based company alerts about upcoming events . Timing , as they say , is everything . And the best time of day to deliver important messages to your team is in the morning , when they 're feeling fresh and ready to start the day . From my experience , time and place are very interconnected when it comes to effective information distribution . Big announcements made at the end of a work day are likely to go in one ear and out the other . But if every person is individually greeted as they walk into the office each morning with the most important information of the day , many business executives agree that retention automatically goes up . At STRV , we 're working on a system that will immediately ping each employee as they arrive at their desks with announcements about meetings , events and other useful information , which should improve office communication quite a bit . I strongly believe that it 's a CEO 's responsibility to adapt to the ways their team works . It should not be the other way around . Find out how your employees best process information , and make sure they get whatever they need to do their jobs effectively . Read more about office communication here on Tech . Co This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .