Swym CEO Arvind Krishnan . ( Swym Photo )   It 's not an easy time to be in the e - commerce business . Tech titans , like Amazon and Walmart , are able to devote far more resources to their digital products than smaller companies have at their disposal . That 's where Swym comes in . The Seattle startup has a platform that allows online retailers to provide features similar to Amazon 's shopping history or Expedia 's " Scratchpad " tool . Using Swym , retailers can track shoppers behavior across multiple devices , allowing them to follow - up with customers the next time they visit the website . If for example , a shopper adds an item to her cart while browsing on mobile , the retailer can remind her next time she visits the site on her laptop . Swym 's technology works even if the shopper hasn't logged into an account . Watch the video below for an overview of how the product works .   " Consumer shopping journeys are becoming increasingly multi - device , and their expectations for what makes for a good shopping experience are constantly evolving , " said Swym CEO Arvind Krishnan . " It 's becoming clear that brands that do n't put digital convenience at the forefront will not stand much of a chance in the new landscape . " Swym is a product of the TiE Silicon Valley incubator . The startup is a current member of the Techstars Seattle 2017 class . We caught up with Krishnan for this Startup Spotlight , a regular GeekWire feature . Continue reading for his answers to our questionnaire . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " Smartphones are changing the way we shop in very fundamental ways . Swym helps e - commerce brands engage better with their mobile shoppers by accurately mapping a shopper 's journey across devices , and using that context to deliver a truly personalized experience for them . " Inspiration hit us when : " We were frustrated by the mobile shopping experience offered by most retailers - it seemed pretty ordinary and hardly personal . Meanwhile , services like Netflix , Spotify , and Flipboard were delivering a ' wow ' experience by making it all about the user , and what the user cares about . When we first encountered the Expedia Scratchpad , we thought all e - commerce sites should have that assistance capability and our vision started to come together for how we bridge those two worlds of e - commerce and personalized assistance . " VC , Angel or Bootstrap : " It 's been an interesting journey -- we were incubated at TiE Launchpad in Silicon Valley , raised some angel money subsequently , and are now part of Techstars Seattle . After a few failed experiments around the right path to scale , we 've seen some incredible growth in the last eight months and are very excited about the road ahead . " Our ' secret sauce ' is : " Being able to map the shopper journey across devices and leveraging that to deliver a personalized experience for them . " The smartest move we 've made so far : " While the opportunity we are going after is broad and complex , it was important to focus initially on a specific segment and prove out our hypothesis . We made a bold call a few months ago to focus solely on the Shopify platform as our first stop , and that has worked out really well for us . " The biggest mistake we 've made so far : " Trying to build a self - serve offering initially for a market segment that was n't quite ready for self - serve . A few initial false positives sent us down the wrong path early on , but thankfully we course corrected before it was too late . " Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : " With a fair bit of Microsoft DNA in the team , there is always an inherent Gates bias , but we also feel his influence is already a part of who we are . And given our vertical and the focus on the customer experience , we 'd hugely value having Jeff in our corner . Amazon 's been absolutely amazing at demonstrating how relentless customer focus can be a massively successful strategy , and we definitely look to them for inspiration in more ways than one . " Our favorite team - building activity is : " We love our weekend ' hackathons ' - every couple of months , we vote on a fun feature / module we want to build together , camp out at some remote , exotic location to build it , and do n't get out until we are done . It 'll be more challenging to keep this going as the team grows , but it 's done wonders for team chemistry . " The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : " Three things actually - passion for making a big impact , a relentless focus on getting things done , and a strong culture fit with the team . " What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : " You are going to hear " no , " a lot . Do n't let that faze you - you are on this path for a reason . Back yourself 100 percent , keep making forward progress , and the tide will eventually turn in your favor . Editor 's note : GeekWire is featuring each of the companies in the Techstars Seattle 2017 accelerator as they prepare for their Demo Day April 19 .        