Having killer programming tools at your disposal makes all the difference when it comes to running a software startup . They allow you to spend less time working on mundane programming tasks and more time wowing your new customers . It also gives you a chance to try your hand at that whole work life balance thing , which is apparently quite important . As a self - confessed workaholic , I wo n't comment on the work life balance part . But I 'd be happy to share a few of the helpful programming tools that I 've used along the way as a full - time entrepreneur . GitHub is one of the best programming tools for collaboration between development teams . As changes are made , you can choose whether or not to have the code updated across your platform based on your desire to tweak and test every component of your web platform . Everything is always up - to - date in the cloud , giving your entire team visibility on what 's being developed across the office , or around the world . And , when things go wrong , it 's almost effortless to go back in time and reset your code . The easiest way to keep track of time spent on each aspect of your project , across your entire team , is a web - based and mobile app - based tracker called Toggl . It 's simple interface betrays how powerful it is as a tool for creating accurate invoices and measuring productivity . Each user has their own account where they can log time spent , with detailed descriptions . The time can be assigned to a project , which makes invoicing a lot easier at the end of every week . Project planning is complex for software developers . There are so many moving parts , with specialized programming tools based on different coding languages and platforms . JIRA brings everything together into one place . Where basecamp is incredibly powerful for startup organizations , JIRA focuses every aspect of their suite on dev infrastructure and communication . Boards make sharing code and insights easy . For overseeing software dev from a distance , accept no substitute . Arguably the best test case management tools are offered by QASymphony . Creating the code that makes technology roar to life is one thing , but testing that code is something else completely . For managers , working with teams of specialized devs , rolling out tests to the end - user is just one more thing on their list of daily time eaters . By utilizing qTest Manager , companies are able to ensure test case schedules are maintained , without following up with each team member individually . The color - coded dashboard allows management to spot - check project status with a glance . And , if they need more detail on which area of the test is falling behind , they can drill down to get further details . Trello is like having all your index cards with random ideas organized into a single place that 's accessible from anywhere . The interface is so simple , it 's almost idiot proof . You can use it to supplement other project management software as well . As inspiration strikes , or a random insight is gained on a conference call , you can whip open Trello and make a note . As the project unfolds , Trello 's drag and drop / open interface allows for additional notes and observations to be added . Team members can check - in on what 's going in with notes that relate to their projects , and quickly add their own thoughts for your consideration the next time you open the app .   