The idea of sailing out in the open seas may bring to mind relaxation and plenty of wine on a state - of - the - art cruise liner - unless you do n't handle motion well , in which case you might envision a terrible time . For many yacht owners , however , sailing represents a chance for competitiveness and intricate teamwork , where they can pitt their boats against another for a coveted prize . Through yacht clubs and groups , the community of sailing - lovers is a tightknit one , and one that Sydney startup MySail is looking to bring to a centralised online space . Through two online platforms , the business helps racing yacht owners manage their crew , from the point of hiring to all the organisational facets of scheduling . An online connection platform , MySail 's " crew finder " wants to eliminate the bundle of traditional legwork that goes into sourcing crew members , typically involving whiteboard callouts and paper - list signups in yacht clubs . Meanwhile , the startup 's management platform looks to simplify the email and spreadsheeting involved with organising a race event and crew members through a cloud - based management system . MySail founder Deborah Dalziel , part of the sailing community herself , began developing the platforms late last year , after first imagining the solutions nearly a year back . " I then started looking at market size by doing some research and talking to local yacht clubs around Sydney , to really determine if the problem was big enough to build a solution around . We started developing in November and finished the beta of the crew finder by the end of the month , " said Dalziel . Bootstrapping most of the development process herself , Dalziel quickly recognised that continuing to fund the startup herself would n't be sustainable . While a paid subscription service is planned for MySail 's future , the startup is currently offered access to both platforms free of charge and ad revenue . Searching for options , the entrepreneur secured an MVP grant from the government as well as support from BlueChilli . With financial backing , the startup 's management platform soft - launched into market last month , while the crew finder has continued to operate in beta within two yacht clubs in Sydney . " We 've been focusing in Sydney for the time being because I 'm based there , " Dalziel said . " That said , [ the platforms ] will be available Australia - wide because they 're Australia - wide problems . These issues yacht owners face spans internationally too ; I 've spoken to people from many different areas like Canada , where I 'm from , as well as Southeast Asia and the United States . " With international expansion set as the long - term goal , Dalziel said the startup will first look to merge both its platforms together into one centralised space under the MySail banner , which will enable the integrated solution to offer the complete end - to - end process . " There 's no one that does the end - to - end of finding a new crew then getting it sorted . There are other systems that do bits and pieces , but nothing together , " she said . " We 'll help crew managers get organised earlier and actually find new crew members really quickly if someone drops out . You 'll also be able to view which crew are available so you can sort out who to assign to an event , all on the same platform . " Currently , a yacht owner looking to find new crew , can search through the connection platform for candidates , narrowing their search by location and soon , according to Dalziel , by search categories too . A crew member 's profile will contain all the details a manager looks for in their search , including sailing experience , yacht racing knowledge , location , prefered race length and crew position , yacht size , and availability . Recommendations can also be left underneath a user profiles to bolster their reputation by contacting the MySail team . " Each profile also displays basic information of age , location , and an image preview when searching , so users do n't have to waste too much of their time clicking on someone who does n't have enough experience , " Dalziel added . When someone 's contacted to join a crew , they 'll receive an email . The process is similar to how the management platform operates , where crew leaders are able to " add " members to a team and assign them positions for an event by sending them an email invite . Events themselves are scheduled and outlined on the management platform , where a crew manager can also sort through a team member 's qualifications and availability to determine who to assign to an event . Since testing the crew finding platform in two of Sydney 's yacht clubs , Dalziel said the startup has accumulated roughly 400 users , a number set to grow as the business rolls out its offerings to the wider yacht racing community . " I have a really big vision about where this can go . There 's quite a big market in terms of management and servicing , so we 'll look to add new features to support that , " she said . " It 's quite a tight network of people , so I want to get a lot of people sharing it and get people in through the yacht club 's , popular sailing websites and social media . In the next month these two platforms will be combined . "