Remember the ' Fitbit for cows ' , the wearable that helped farmers increase milk yields ? Well , they just announced that they 're part of Y Combinator 's winter ' 17 batch . Cowlar , which started up in Pakistan but is now headquartered in California , builds a tracking wearable that monitors the body temperature and behavior of cows . That allows farmers to detect when the animal is in heat and the best time for insemination . It becomes the second startup from the country to be accepted into Y Combinator - after artisanal shoes startup Markhor did it in 2015 . Umer Adnan , CEO of Cowlar , claims the wearable helps increase dairy output by approximately 15 percent . " We 're a hybrid of dairy science and machine learning inside a plastic box , " he remarks . Cowlar 's wearable tackles a very real problem . Emerging countries like India , Pakistan , Mexico , and Vietnam have millions of cows - India is home to the largest livestock population in the world - but average milk yields are around a quarter of those in the US and Netherlands . A large part of the reason is inferior farming practices , poor nutrition , and abysmal veterinary standards . " The biggest thing we 're trying to capture is when a cow is in heat . If farmers miss the heat cycle then the next cycle comes after 21 days . If you miss that , you 're missing out on 21 days of milk production , " Umer told Tech in Asia in April . The idea for the gizmo came during Umer 's previous entrepreneurial foray - design company E4 Technologies - which developed products for wireless crop monitoring , energy optimization , and motion tracking for sports . Cowlar was one of its products - probably the most unique and disruptive - but definitely not the one making the most revenue . Umer claims E4 Technologies had clients from 8 countries , made US$ 300,000 in revenue in 2016 , and was already profitable . The team decided to pause all that to concentrate solely on Cowlar . " The response ever since we entered Y Combinator has been phenomenal and beyond our wildest expectations , " says Umer . " It was n't easy to give up a substantial amount of money but we 're trying to fundamentally change the dairy industry . " Umer adds that there are four to five other startups that are making wearable devices for cows , but says they 're far more expensive and costly to maintain . UK - based Lely , which makes robotic milking systems that incorporate electronic collars , costs almost US$ 200,000 to set up . Furthermore , such large agri - tech firms need to send installation teams to set up things like sensors and wireless networks spread across the farm before systems are up and running . It 's a time - consuming and prohibitive process . Umer 's gizmo costs US$ 69 and has a battery life of one year . There 's no need to send an installation team - it 's more or less plug - and - play . Simplicity and ease of use are encoded into the startup 's DNA . " I 've challenged my team to make products that even our grandmothers can install and use , " he laughs . The YC experience so far has been " tremendous , " he adds , with several partnerships and deals signed due to the networks that the superstar accelerator opens up . Interest in the product is pouring in from the US , Netherlands , Vietnam , and Mexico , but there 's currently a waiting list . For customers in Asia , the delivery timeline can be up to two months . Manufacturing is done both in Shenzhen and Pakistan . Umer 's coy about whether there 's been investor interest . He says they 're growing pretty fast organically - talking to large dairy associations and farming bodies in the US - and are in the midst of locking down some serious deals . " At the moment we 're mostly concerned about maintaining quality and service levels as we ship more and more quantities , " he explains . Simultaneously , they 're constantly talking to users and tweaking the product based on feedback . When it comes to larger farms , the issue is n't as much about improving milk yields as it is about operational issues , labor efficiencies , and the health of the animal . The farmers ' dashboard is now taking into account these factors too . " It helps to be laser - focused , " says Umer . This article by Osman Husain originally appeared on Tech in Asia , a Burn Media publishing partner . Feature image : steve p2008 via Flickr .