Small businesses usually start from a personal dream combined with a great idea . That 's great , but the reality is the stakes are very high -- the success of a startup actually depends on its clients . They are the ones bringing in the money and paying the monthly costs and taxes . So first of all , we must define the ideal customers and therefore , set the bars for the target audience . Let 's keep it simple in here -- ideal clients must : Now , let 's move on to the main subject and see how to attract these impressive customers . Mediocrity is not the solution for success . You must be ready to work even harder than you did before and commit time and energy in one single direction -- improving the services offered . Check out the competition and see what it is that you can do better . Let 's take airlines , for example . They all do the same thing : They get you from one place to another . Now the question is , in what conditions ? People are willing to pay extra for aspects like plane 's design , seats ' size , type of food and drinks served , attendant 's attitude , and so on . Be an A class airline ! Do n't beg for clients to buy your services ! Big companies wo n't ever collaborate with entrepreneurs who do n't have self respect and a fair dose of vanity . Instead , make them find you everywhere they go and make them believe they really need your expertise . Write down a presentation letter using physiological tricks : create a need , present the change you would bring , showcase benefits and advantages and end with a call to action . Then , increase exposure by posting guest articles on related websites , for free . Hosts will be thrilled to go online with great content without having to invest anything . Of course , use social media on daily basis to keep customers engaged . A good first impression does it all . Build a neat , elegant and professional image by paying attention to details like : Do n't get drowned in your own needs , they do n't matter when chasing the ideal customers . In order to be successful , understand the client 's needs . There is no such thing as a standard recipe for success , so you need to customize your services for each company served . Then , have no excuses for failing ! The client 's failure is your failure . Understand this responsibility and work WITH the customers , not only FOR the customers . Be a team all the way and help each other achieve the set goals . What can be more precious than time ? Show your customers that you are interested in their success and not only in their money . Do this by offering your time ! Stay in meetings as long as necessary , just till the client is sure you understood his needs and he is sure you are the right solution . Do n't rely on managers ' reports only , but stay in and observe the company 's daily activity . An uninvolved person will always see things differently . In the end , do n't refrain from asking for higher rates for the services offered . Actually , it is proved that people believe expensive things are better than cheap ones . Change is difficult for everybody . So make sure you are there 24/7 in order to ease the transition . Offer 24-hour email support , additional phone assistance , regular feedback on implementation , training sessions and regularly progress evaluation . Big customers want to believe they have it all and they do n't need to buy anything else . So selling your services to them wo n't work . However , everyone is vulnerable to new ideas . Show rich people a new thing and they would want to have it immediately ! Following this theory , educate the target audience in the right direction by attending to presentations , conferences and webinars . Best way to sell something - do n't sell anything . Earn the awareness , respect , & trust of those who might buy . -- Rand Fishkin ( @randfish ) February 4 , 2015 Think outside the box : Be able to see your vision and to believe in it ; capable of moving mountains just to fulfill an idea ; willing to go the extra mile for succeeding . These employees have a fair dose of the right kind of craziness and they will do so much more for you than the ones possessing only the academic skills .