Selling content online has become a massive industry in the last several years , as online courses rake in well over $ 100 billion annually . As the internet continues to mature , the industry 's reach and profitability swells as well . Considering the massive potential that online courses and other digital learning modalities bring to individuals and brands , many are looking to cash in and create courses of their own . There are many online courses that pull in six to seven figures per month on a variety of topics . And once they have been generated income , courses can be repurposed many times over to create additional revenue . The biggest problems brands face is that they feel unqualified to teach or their email lists are too small . Both of these obstacles are surmountable with a little time and effort . Let 's dispel a couple of myths first . If you are good at something , you can teach a program . It 's that simple . In addition , online courses are actually an effective way to grow email lists . They work together , and you do n't need a massive list to get started . Now let 's cover how startups , companies , and individuals can craft a digital learning course that engages , sells , and delivers results . For many , this is the most challenging aspect to creating an online course . In many instances , however , this is merely a case of overthinking . In order to get to the bottom of what people want to learn and what daily challenges they struggle to overcome , just ask them . This can be approached from various directions . You can pull inspiration from the comments on your blog or engage online discussion forums . You can post queries on social media , or even go right for it and create and publish surveys . Just make sure you are framing them in a way that makes people want to engage . In all honesty , surveys are likely your best option . " Do regular surveys with your audience to figure out what is the most talked about areas in terms of problems they are having and then build content around these areas , " said Ian Cleary , CEO of RazorSocial . " You can even use the words they use in the copy for your sales / promotional material ! " Once you have harvested insights from your audience , you 'll be able to better decide what your next steps are . After all , you need to know your students before you can create the curriculum . When creating an online course , it is vital to remember that people are seeking information to handle certain situations . Your course is designed to be a shortcut or revolutionary path to getting to a particular outcome . Keep this in mind as you brainstorm and test solutions . In this phase , anything goes . Explore as many ideas as you can possibly conjure , even ones that seem crazy or outlandish . That 's where breakthroughs occur . The more concepts that you can craft , the better off you will be in creating an ideal solution to people 's concerns . Now that the problem and solution have been established , it is time to begin putting the resolution process on paper and create the course content . An easy way to begin plotting out a course is by documenting each step in the process in chronological order . Once noted , begin fleshing out each step into its own lesson or module . As for the type of content you choose to leverage , most online learning courses use a variety of formats . These include videos , slides , and downloadable text documents . Fortunately , in the era of mobile technology , video content has become extremely inexpensive to create while high quality is easy to attain . With your core content created , it 's time to start segmenting the pieces . This may be a bit painful , but it 's necessary as providing people with too much information leads to lower retention rates . You want your course to appear comprehensive but manageable . " Make sure you structure the course so that you are creating digestible learning modules where people not only feel that have fully understood what you 've explained , but have the confidence to take action on what they have learnt , " said Valarie Khoo , founder and CEO of the Australian Writer 's Centre . If your course is too dense , people will become easily confused and overwhelmed by the information . This causes some to feel unable to act and no closer to solving their issue . The easiest way to approach the editing process is by dividing the information into " need to know " and " nice to know " categories . Anything that lands in the latter column can be cut for the sake of the student . Once the online course is complete , choose whether or not to sell your course via a dedicated website . You can begin researching pricing strategies and advertising options discover a bundle of different distribution options . The easiest solution is often leveraging a platform like Kajabi , which offers a very innovative one - stop shopping toolset for selling courses online . While it does take some time to document and create the materials , the long term benefits of online courses is well often worth the investment . If you 've got the knowledge to help solve a pain point then an online course can catapult you both into happier spaces .