SA 's Afri - Fi has been announced as the runner - up in the Mozilla Equal Rating Innovation Challenge and walks away with USD$75 000 in funding . Afri - Fi is the extension of Project Isizwe which has granted 2.9 million users access to 500 MB of free WiFi daily . " The team has proven how their solution for a free internet is supporting thriving communities in South Africa , " said one of the jury members , Marlon Parker , the Founder of Reconstructed Living Labs , on behalf of the jury in a press release . " Their approach towards community building , partnerships , developing local community entrepreneurs and inclusivity , with a goal of connecting some of the most marginalised communities , are all key factors in why they deserve this recognition and are leading the free internet movement in Southern Africa , " said Parker . The final shortlist consisted of five entries , chosen by a panel of judges which included Mozilla Foundation 's executive chair Mitchell Baker as well as Startup Chile 's executive director Rocio Fonseca , among others . The challenge saw 100 submissions from more than 27 countries . Additionally , it offered rewards to the total value of USD$ 250 000 in funding as well as mentorship to be able to bring these internet solutions to the public . The COO of Project Isizwe , Tim Genders , commented on placing second in the challenge . " Our next steps are to make free WiFi scalable and self - sustaining through an advertising model . We want to make free WiFi the new medium to get messages out to communities . " The former communications technology minister of Nigeria , Omobola Johnson also commented on Project Isizwe 's success . " I was particularly delighted to see strong African representation in the semi - finalists . " " The solutions were contextually innovative and they all emphasised a strong need to collaborate ; big companies , local governments , rural communities , telcos , all working together to implement solutions where each of them come out a winner , " Johnson concluded . Featured image via APO