Versive CEO Joe Polverari . ( Versive Photo )   Context Relevant -- a well - funded Seattle - area startup founded in 2012 - - has been flying under the radar for the past few years after its founder and CEO stepped down . Now it 's stepping back into the limelight with a new product and a new name . The company announced Thursday that it is changing its name to Versive and also unveiled the Versive Security Engine , an artificial intelligence - powered cybersecurity system designed to protect companies ' enterprise systems from hostile attacks . The tool works by connecting instances of suspicious or malicious activity detected at different points in the network and across time , which Versive says sets it apart from other available cybersecurity services . " Malicious actors already operating inside networks are fast becoming the top machine - scale problem in business and government today , " Versive CEO Joe Polverari said in a statement . " As one of the foremost innovators in artificial intelligence , our team recognizes the unrivaled power of data science , machine learning , and automation to solve these high - stakes cybersecurity challenges . " " Today 's launch is the result of extensive development efforts between our platform team , customers , and top minds in the fields of cyber defense and national security . Any organization can now leverage the power of advanced machine learning to gain an advantage over cyber threats by using the Versive Security Engine , built on true AI innovation and tailored to meet progressive security teams ' demands , " he said . Versive was originally founded as a data science and analytics company focused on the financial market . Its new focus -- and new look -- come two years after the company cut a third of its staff and conducted a deep operational review following the departure of its founder and CEO , Stephen Purpura . Polverari was appointed CEO last spring following an interim period when the company was led by investor and board member Chris Kelley .