Nobody likes getting rejected . Unfortunately , it 's an integral part of the startup life . But for entrepreneurs , it can actually be a learning experience . Rejection , in any setting , is difficult to swallow . Often times it 's this test that can make or break you as an entrepreneur . A business plan rejection , a loan rejection , a partnership rejection - you name it . If you 're in the startup business , you 're sure to face rejection at some point . How you react to that rejection though is the key to making it as a successful entrepreneur . Here are four tips on handling rejection as an entrepreneur : Entrepreneurs often make the mistake of taking rejection personally . We all have feelings , after all . It 's important to note , however , that just because your idea got shot down or your partnership was rejected , it does n't mean it 's a reflection on you . Do n't let rejections get to you . Instead , look at the rejection purely for what it is : a learning experience . Ask yourself , was it a bad business plan ? Was it the wrong partnership terms ? Was it the wrong timing ? Rather than blaming yourself , assess what the real reasons for rejection were . Many of my early rejections would have put me out of business . Thankfully , I did n't let it get to me and I was able to overcome these minor setbacks with even better outcomes . Chalk it up to an overwhelming sense of pride , but entrepreneurs can often sit down in a meeting thinking that everyone else is wrong . While there may be some truth to that , it 's important to learn from every rejection . If your software or product was rejected for a particular reason , take a second look and see if you can make your original idea better . I 've made great edits to our services and offerings thanks to rejection . By paying attention to feedback about what people really wanted and what they 're not interested in , we 've been able to tailor our solutions to exactly what our customers want . It 's a win - win situation if you ask me . Often the reason you get rejected , especially in business , is because you haven't educated your audience enough . In a world where there are so many " disruptors , " you have to know that the world may not be quite ready for your product or service . Take concerns that are brought up and use them as a means to educate the public or your customers about your idea , business or solution . In my agency , we compile every rejection and use them as a means of educating ourselves . We create a variety of content to address common rejection points and use it to explain to potential prospects why we 're a good partner . If you 're constantly hearing " no " from the same crowd , it 's possible that you 're trying to sell your idea , product , or service to the wrong people . Take a second look at who 's rejecting you and figure out if this is the right audience for your product or service . Chances are you might not be targeting correctly . When I first started my business , I thought my customers would be designers and other creatives . I soon realized that the people who really needed my help were business owners with a lack of resources to create an impactful brand . Rejection is hard for anyone . When you 're running a business and an entire team is dependent on your success , it 's even more stressful . Entrepreneurs carry a heavy load . Rejection should not discourage you , nor should it end your dreams . If you pay attention , you 'll find that you 'll actually succeed in spite of those rejections . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .