Australian edutech accelerator EduGrowth has launched a pre - accelerator program , a free online course designed to guide edtech startups through the development of their ideas on to launch . Accessible through an online learning platform , the program spans across eight weeks , with each covering a specific topic such as " Tech 101 " , business models , prototyping , edtech branding and marketing , pitching and fundraising , selling to schools .   The subjects form part of the content available to participants in EduGrowth 's flagship accelerator program , a course designed to teach founders how to imagine , develop and scale their ideas . Commencing mid - April , the free program will be delivered to participants through pre - recorded video segments and live question and answer sessions led by established edtech entrepreneurs , including founder of adaptive learning platform Smart Sparrow , Dr Dror Ben - Naim . Also amongst the lineup of educators is Craig Simon , general manager of global education platform 3P Learning , and EduGrowth CEO Riley Batchelor . Speaking about the launch , Batchelor said that the introduction of a free course for first - time edtech founders marks an important investment in strengthening Australia 's edtech sector . " Equipping entrepreneurs with the right skills at an early stage is critical to their success , particularly when navigating the complexities of the education sector . This course is about attracting new talent to the edtech industry and building the most effective capabilities to drive real innovation in education , " said Batchelor .   Elaborating on program 's focus on attracting " new talent " , Simon added that the course is open to anyone both inside or outside the education industry , saying , " Whether you 're a seasoned entrepreneur who is new to edtech , or an educator with a burning idea , this course is a great way to prepare for your future in edtech . " The top performing startups from each state will be invited to pitch their idea at the EduGrowth pitch events held in each Australian capital city from mid - June onwards . EduGrowth is the latest in a line of organisations to launch a pre - accelerator program as a method to help develop ideas not quite ready for their full programs .   Agtech accelerator SproutX , for example , last year launched a pre - accelerator program online to help build agtech startups towards being able to apply for its main program . Guiding new entrepreneurs towards a more traditional accelerator program also formed part of the reasoning behind the development of Indigenous pre - accelerator Barayamal , as the organisation 's founder , Dean Foley , explained after its wrap up late last year . " There 's been scepticism from some people out there ... one of the most successful non - Indigenous startup programs in Queensland pretty much told us we should just run a pre - accelerator because they did n't believe there were enough quality Indigenous startups and entrepreneurs out there to run a full program , " Foley said at the time . The EduGrowth pre - accelerator kicks off on the 19th of April . You can read more about the program here .