Notion Capital , the London - based VC focused on enterprise SaaS and cloud startups , is announcing a number of updates today . This includes a new later - stage follow - on fund for existing portfolio companies , and the final closing of its third early - stage fund , which now counts Cisco amongst a number of new U.S .- based LPs . The firm has also made two internal promotions , with both Chrys Chrysanthou and Patrick Norris making the step up to partner . Dubbed " Notion Capital Opportunities LP , " the new growth equity fund is targeting a final close of $ 80 million and will be used by Notion to do later - stage investments -- think Series C and beyond -- in the best performing companies in its current portfolio , and in a way that would not be possible by simply following on out of its existing funds . I understand Notion has already raised 55 percent of the new fund 's target size , whilst the thinking behind the follow - on vehicle is to " augment investment returns " and position the firm as an even more attractive and long - term funding partner for the companies and founders it backs . Notion is also communicating the final close of " Notional Capital III LP , " its third early - stage fund at $ 140 million , $ 120 million of which had previously been announced . Notably , new LPs include Cisco Investments , the venture capital arm of Silicon Valley tech giant Cisco , as well as two U.S. university endowments , Emory and Texas A&M. Ireland 's Key Capital has also invested in the fund . In a call , Notion Capital Managing Partner Stephen Chandler said the fact that the VC has pulled in U.S .- based LPs for the final closing of fund three is a reflection of the growing interest across the pond in European tech startups . This , he said , was in stark contrast to the state of play back in 2009 when Notion Capital was first started by himself and the two founders of MessageLabs , after it sold for $ 700 million to Symantec a year earlier . Asked about the trouble other U.K. funds are reportedly having closing , because of uncertainty now that Brexit 's Article 50 has been triggered and in relation to Europe 's largest LP , the partly European tax - payer funded European Investment Fund ( EIF ) , Chandler says that this was something he took into account when actively courting U.S. investors . Put simply , given Brexit , he wanted Notion to diversify its LPs away from being so reliant on the EU , and says U.S. LPs now make up 20 percent of Notion Capital III 's final closing . Investors in the U.K. , including the state - backed British Business Bank , accounts for 25 percent , Middle East investors account for 25 percent and EU investors , such as the EIF and various European family offices , make up the remaining 30 percent . Meanwhile , Chandler says the promotion of Chrysanthou and Norris to full partner roles is a sign that Notion itself is maturing along with its in - house talent . Specifically , it signals that the firm has moved beyond simply being known as the European SaaS fund founded by ex - MessageLabs operators and owners . " These developments leave us exceptionally well positioned for 2017 and beyond , so we feel excited about what the future holds for Notion , " he adds in a statement . " From the start we set out to build a genuinely differentiated venture capital firm that would be sustainable across multiple generations . Talent is obviously critical to that mission so it is particularly pleasing to recognise the contribution of our two new partners with these internal promotions . "