Harry Stebbings . Atomico Harry Stebbings has left his role at London - based VC fund Atomico , he said in the latest episode of his podcast . Stebbings is the host of the " Twenty Minute VC " podcast , and it was announced in December that he had joined VC firm Atomico as " the world 's youngest VC . " However , 20-year - old Stebbings has now left the VC firm after six months . Stebbings said in a statement that " the Atomico EIR [ entrepreneur in residence ] programme has been a fantastic learning experience and one I would recommend to any founder while they are figuring out the next big challenge they want to solve . " " I could n't think of a better place to take the time to figure out what I want to do next with the help and guidance of some of the best in the industry . While I ca n't tell you what that is yet , I can tell you that I am so grateful for all the support and mentorship I 've had from Mattias and the whole Atomico team and I look forward to working closely with them in the future . " Business Insider understands that Stebbings has claimed to be in the early stages of raising his own VC fund . Mattias Ljungman , a cofounder and partner at Atomico , sent the following statement about Stebbings ' departure : " I first met Harry a couple of years ago when I was interviewed on the show . I was extremely impressed with what he 's achieved , we became friends and last year welcomed him to Atomico 's EIR programme . We set up our EIR programme so experienced players can spend some time supporting our portfolio companies , mentoring new entrepreneurs , and sourcing more great start - ups on their way to becoming global winners . The EIR programme was always designed to be a temporary platform for founders to be part of on their journey towards finding their next entrepreneurial idea . EIRs can stay with us anywhere between three and 18 months . In Harry 's case , we are very excited that he has found his next idea as part of this programme . He will become part of a prestigious Atomico EIR Alumni network and we look forward to putting the full weight of Atomico behind supporting him , as we do with all our Alumni , in his next endeavour when he is ready to announce it . "