US President - elect Donald Trump and Softbank CEO Masayoshi Son acknowledge guests after meeting at Trump Tower . Brendan McDermid / Reuters SoftBank 's Vision Fund is officially the world 's biggest private equity fund after it announced on Saturday that it had closed $ 93 billion . The extra $ 7 billion , bringing the fund 's total to $ 100 billion , is expected to close in the next six months , SoftBank said in its announcement on Saturday . It 's a colossal amount of capital collected to invest in the next wave of technology companies , and it 's size and focus has attracted backers like Apple and Qualcomm as a result . The billions invested will be directed towards the tech industry , ranging from companies in artificial intelligence to robotics and cloud technology . The way the fund was publicized suggested that it intended to invest in startups and emerging technologies . In December , Son told President - elect Donald Trump that $ 50 billion of the fund would be invested in US startups and it would bring 50,000 jobs to the US as a result , according to Bloomberg . While startups will be a part of the fund , SoftBank said in the press release that it 's going to be investing in " established , multi - billion dollar companies requiring substantial growth funding " as well . " Technology has the potential to address the biggest challenges and risks facing humanity today . The businesses working to solve these problems will require patient long - term capital and visionary strategic investment partners with the resources to nurture their success , " said SoftBank chairman and CEO Masayoshi Son in a press release . " The SoftBank Vision Fund is consistent with this strategy and will help build and grow businesses creating the foundational platforms of the next stage of the Information Revolution . " SoftBank announced the fund last October , saying that it would be based in London . Other high - profile backers now include Foxconn , Sharp , and the Mubadala Investment Company of the United Arab Emirates .