Having a cofounder can be tricky . Between funding disputes and splitting the responsibility , finding the perfect balance can be an arduous process that takes years of trust and confidence . However , if the dynamic is productive , having a cofounder can increase your success and productivity tenfold . We asked three entrepreneur about the value of having a cofounder . Check out their answers below and start thinking about splitting the responsibility of your startup : When it all comes down to it ( and your potential investors ) , you do n't want to have an entire system reliant on just you . You need someone else in place who 's just as motivated as you to keep the business going . It 's a checks - and - balances of sorts on a system that could otherwise fail if you make one wrong decision or if you simply need to take the day off . - Jordan Gurrieri of Orbit Path Running a business is an extremely involved , incredibly tiring process . I 've seen my fair share of solo entrepreneurs struggling just to keep themselves afloat . By having someone else on board with your startup , you 're cutting the amount of work you need to do in half - something that 'll work wonders for your sanity . - Steven Buchwald of Buchwald & Associates I 've always thought it 's important to have at least one other person you can count on . It 's helpful to have two minds working to craft the big vision and identify potential hurdles . The ability to divide and conquer is critical in an environment that is constantly shifting and evolving . A good co - founder allows you to look at what lies ahead rather than driving by looking in the rearview mirror . - Joshua Moe of Odigia      FounderSociety is an invitation - only organization comprised of ambitious startup founders and business owners .      This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .   FounderSociety is an invitation - only organization comprised of ambitious startup founders and business owners . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .