Following controversy in recent weeks around the business model being pushed onto franchisees , pizza chain Domino 's has announced the launch of an artificial intelligence ( AI ) assistant that will be plugged into the brand 's web platform and mobile app to allow customers to order food using voice commands .   Named Domino 's Robotic Unit ( DRU ) Assist , the AI will be able to recognise a customer 's order through reading text entered on the company 's web platform or voice while using the app .   In addition to regular orders , customers will also be able to make customisations , such as asking for extra cheese , by talking to the AI . DRU Assist will also be able to tell customers if any new menu items are on offer and inform them about the restaurant 's latest deals . Domino 's Group CEO and Managing Director , Don Meij , said he 's excited that Domino 's will be the first company amongst Quick Service Restaurants ( QSR ) to helm a technology that will lead the future of the industry . " DRU Assist is the first ever virtual assistant available to help customers place their orders online in the Australian QSR industry . It will help our customers streamline their ordering process with efficient and helpful service with a side of personality , " said Meij .   " DRU Assist , and AI , will become the leading future platform for ordering , management , marketing and delivery as part of the DRU Platform . " Launching into public beta yesterday , Meij said the AI will also be able to chat back to customers through a voice engine powered by software company Nuance , and will feature machine learning feature to help it learn and improve its recognition capabilities from " every customer experience " . To fuel the AI 's learning process , Meij called out for Domino 's customers across Australia to take part in the beta and use the app , saying , " allowing the beta to be open to the whole nation means that DRU Assist will learn faster , and provide a better service for our customers . " The CEO added that Domino 's will look towards working with third - party partners to integrate the AI into other digital platforms and devices , such as smart TVs . During yesterday 's Abacus Tech event , the company also announced the development of Domino 's Anywhere , an upgrade to the business 's location - based features set to launch later this year .   Domino 's Anywhere will allow customers to drop an exact location pin when ordering food using GPS , meaning they can have pizza delivered to varying locations they 're at such as parks and stores , removing the need for an exact street address . " We know that pizza is a social sharing meal and many of our customers want to enjoy it on a day out with the family , and not be limited to a house or office , " said Meij . The company also launched a plugin for Facebook 's Messenger platform that will allow Facebook users to discover pizza deals , called the Domino 's Offers Bot .    Looking to build out their drone delivery service , Domino 's also presented an update about its DRU Drone by Australian drone startup Flirtey , saying that a further trial period is being set for the second half of this year in New Zealand . The two companies began working together to test the drone delivery service which will form Domino 's Autonomous Delivery fleet last August , eventually opening the service up to the New Zealand public in November .   Despite drone delivery being a key focus for the company , however , Meij said Domino 's will also look to expand its Autonomous Delivery fleet using land - based robotic units . " The continued testing and expansion of our autonomous delivery systems demonstrates that Domino 's is committed to providing innovative , safer delivery systems across our network , " he said .