Though the world of accounting software is more sophisticated than it has ever been before , for various types of organisations there are still some key features missing . That 's what Adam Clark found while working at Xero and chatting to charities using the software : it worked great for many things , but it did n't help speed up the process of creating annual receipts for donors . So he started to build Donation Manager . At its most basic level , Clark explained , it allows a charity to quickly generate donation receipts for donors , a process which most small to medium charities are still doing manually . " If you consider there are over 15,000 active charities in New Zealand , and each was to save even just one hour a year - which I hope would be a minimum saving - that 's 15,000 hours volunteers can spend on solving the problem their charity has been set up to solve , " Clark said . Clark , who had been involved with various charities since he finished studying , took a job at Xero in 2011 , where he said the company " kind of let me loose " in the sales and customer experience areas . Here , he was able to talk with hundreds of charity treasurers and administrators about the problems they faced . A number of key issues kept coming up in these conversations : that there was no charity - specific software available at a reasonable cost to help decrease their administrative burden , with the time taken to make and send out annual receipts a frequent example ; that charities have problems with both engaging existing donors and attracting new ones , which flows onto declining revenues from private sources . Clark began looking at how to start building the platform in 2013 , at which point he said there was nothing in the market that came close to helping charities with their needs . " There are some more options out there now , but they are still relatively expensive , or lacking in functionality , " he said . Despite his links to the tech community , the journey from initial idea to launch was n't exactly an easy one , with Clark saying he almost gave up a few times . " The initial concepts were developed based on conversations with all the charities , and then refined based on my light BA work with Xero developers on functionality directed at accountants ( which is now morphing into Xero HQ ) . Clark incorporated the company in 2013 , and put the development out for tender on Freelancer , awarding the contract to an overseas development firm that had solid positive feedback . " However , milestones dragged out and a six month build turned into a half built product in 18 months . When they were due to provide me with source code of their latest updates to receive their next tranche of funding , they disappeared off the face of the earth with me a few grand out of pocket ; not brilliant as my wife was studying and I was on a single income , " Clark said . It took him a while to recover , Clark said , and in mid-2015 he had some spec work done by a local development firm which put the cost of local development far out of the reach of his ability to self - fund . He shopped around local social enterprise investors to see if there was any interest in funding a build , but had no luck . At the end of that year he posted another job on Freelancer to have someone build a " very , very basic " version of the software based on a WordPress back end . When this was done , he went out to charities to let them know it was there , and got a number on board . With this , Clark said he judged the venture as a " limited success " , deciding that if it was going to work , the software had to be operated by a charity itself so that any profits could go back to charities , with the hope that some others might " pick up the tab " once they saw the impact it was having . " Running it through a charitable trust allows me to take advantage of enough free software offers from corporates to keep current level overheads extremely low , and manageable from a personal perspective , " he added . From there , Clark reached out to a New Zealand tech Facebook group to explain the concept and ask what a reasonable rate for a local build would be . Here someone offered to come on board and build the front - end in his spare time , if Clark could get someone to build just the back end - so he sold the last of his Xero shares , borrowed some money , and brought on development agency Enspiral Craftworks . But that was n't the end of the story - the front - end developer ended up having to leave the project due to medical issues . Luckily , the developer at Enspiral Craftworks could take over the whole project , so Clark extended his mortgage and got her to finish the job herself . For a charity , getting started means signing up and inputting all the relevant details about the organisation , and then figuring out what they want their annual receipt or letter to look like .   They can add contacts manually or import a CSV file , then create donation transactions to match the contacts , again manually or by importing from CSV or Xero .   " The process is a lot more straight forward if they use Xero , as naturally I have leaned the product towards working best when there is an integration , " Clark said . " Once they have all their donation transactions for the year added in and matched to contacts , they click a couple of buttons , and their annual receipts are ready to download in PDF format . The charity user can then either post or email the receipts to their donors like they normally would . We definitely want to streamline that final part of the process in the future . " Clark is looking to extend the platform in the future by creating a donor portal , allowing donors themselves to get easy access to their end of year receipts in a single place .    " There is a lot of friction in the donation process , and one of the areas identified by [ the Inland Revenue Department ] and [ Department of Internal Affairs ] is the administrative burden in claiming the donation tax credits , " Clark said . " If a person could login at the end of the year and access all of their donation receipts from a single place , it would make claiming the tax rebate so much easier . And I 'm hoping if it 's easy to claim the rebate , it will increase people 's confidence in donating more to charities . " With so many years spent building the platform , Clark said he now has a number of charities waiting to use it , while he will also look to go deeper into the market by tapping into the contacts he made while at Xero .   The platform is free for charities in New Zealand to use , with Clark to explore putting in place a fee for charities overseas . There are two main competitors Clark sees in the space , Infoodle and Vega , who he wishes " all the best to as they are trying to help the sector as well " , but believes that Donation Manager 's features and the fact it 's free put it above the rest . Looking ahead , Clark aims to bring on funding to further develop the platform . As well as the donor portal , in the pipeline is the integration of a CRM system to help charities better communicate with donors .