There 's a lot of money to be made by forward - thinking sports clubs and leagues taking China seriously . Years of playing pre - season friendlies and tournaments in Asia saw the English Premier League bag around US$ 700 million for its Chinese television rights last year , while the NBA 's streaming deal with Chinese giant Tencent is also worth a reported US$ 700 million . A local club making inroads is the AFL 's Port Adelaide , which will this weekend play a sold out match against the Gold Coast Suns in Shanghai . While it may the focus of many a headline this week , Andrew Hunter , Port 's general manager of China and government relations , said the match is just the beginning of the club 's efforts and business interests in China . " The game itself is n't the final point , it 's really the beginning and intrinsic to what we 're trying to do , which is bring people from Australia and China together for mutual understanding , for mutual business benefit , and to strengthen , ideally , the bilateral relationship , " he said . The club first began looking to China in 2014 , hosting business lunches in Hong Kong and investing in game development in Chinese schools . Over the years it has created a China Strategy , securing a broadcasting deal , sponsoring Team China and the South China Australian Football League , and coming to see itself as a vehicle for the development of business relationships between Australia and China . This is " sports diplomacy " , as the club puts it ; cultural and language barriers can be hard to overcome in business , but sport can break through . " We believe that an asset the club has now is an extraordinary network of people in China , the upper echelon of the business community in Shanghai , as well as access to the business community in Australia , because we 're a high profile club playing the most high profile sport in the country , " Hunter said . " If we can bring those people together so they can get a mutual benefit , where investors want to invest and people on the other side are looking for investment , and we can get a commercial benefit out of it , I think we 're playing a really strong role . " The business community has been growing over the last few years through Port 's China Power Club , in effect a business matching group or forum . Here the club worked in collaboration with the South Australian Government , who would fly a dozen or so high net worth business people in from China for networking opportunities with local business people , centered around a football event . Looking to freshen up the concept this year , Port Adelaide is working with the state government to host an Investment Attraction Forum at Adelaide Oval in June ahead of Port 's round 13 match against Brisbane . Here , five South Australian businesses will be chosen to pitch to around 25 potential investors . The government has assisted in selecting in investors , with Hunter explaining those chosen all hold visas predicated on their intent to do business in South Australia . " Similarly , we want to put them in front of people from South Australia who want to do business in China , " he said . The government will also assist in vetting the businesses selected to pitch ; the opportunity is open to companies from all industries looking for a minimum investment of $ 2 - 3 million . The companies must also be willing to enter into a commercial arrangement with Port Adelaide , with the club to take a " modest success fee " from any deal made through the event . Hunter said the club is treating this first event as a proof of concept , but believes there is enough appetite to expand it in the future ; already in the pipeline is a second event in Shanghai towards the end of the year , with a view to running another two in Adelaide and two in China next year . " I haven't found another sports club that does this , but if you 're a business , you need to understand what your assets are , and ours are n't just what 's on the field . " You can learn more about the Investment Attraction Forum here . Disclosure : David Koch , chairman of Port Adelaide Football Club , is a shareholder in Shoe String Media , which owns Startup Daily .