Looking to get into the South African startup scene or scratch up on some of your skills ? Well , you 've come to the right place . There are loads of competitions , networking sessions and workshops happening around South Africa and the rest of the continent ( namely Kenya , Nigeria and Ghana ) that we 've rounded up to make your life a bit easier . This article is part of a weekly series that highlights all the top startup competitions , networking sessions , workshops and conferences around South Africa , and the greater region . If you have any event recommendations for us to add to the list , or next week 's , please let us know in the comments below or send us an email . Not all of the events are free and some will require booking in advance . Please click on the event names to find out more information . 3rd Annual eCommerce MoneyAfrica The eCommerce conference sessions will examine various aspects of development in the industry : how online and mobile retailers are capitalising on growth opportunities ; how omni - channel retailers are moving into a digital space ; where the consumer is driving their own experience ; the realities and challenges of cross - border expansion ; and overcoming fulfilment concerns and driving logistics in the real world . Date : 22 - 23 February , 8:00am to 6:00pm Location : CTICC Colour Accounting Workshop Workshop for entrepreneurs and business owners wishing to understand accounting . Date : 22 February , 8:30am to 4:30pm Location : N / A SCTalks : Is EdTech the new FinTech ? Money ? Tick . Deal Flow ? Tick . A market ready for digital disruption ? Tick . This has a lot of people wondering if perhaps its time to stop thinking about the next big bank killer and start thinking about how to turn education on its head . Silicon Cape 's February TechTalk is on EdTech . You will meet some of the new startups in the space and hear from people who have been casually disrupting this space for a while as they discuss whether EdTech is the new FinTech , the role that it can play in SA in supplementing traditional education and creating new , future learning solutions . Date : 22 February , 6:00pm to 8:00pm Location : Workshop 17 , V&A Waterfront Lean ( Startup ) Coffee For people working in startups , lean ( startup ) coffee is a weekly 1-hour coffee that runs a mash - up of leancoffee.org with theleanstartup.com . Unlike other startup meetups , lean ( startup ) coffee is agendaless , speakerless and talks about what you care about . We each propose topics , vote on them and talk about the most popular ones for a few minutes . Come visit to see how it works . Date : 22 February , 8:30am to 9:30am Location : TRUTH . coffeecult , 1 Somerset Road , Green Point Share knowledge from our experiences in the practice of Agile Methods and Learn ! Stellenbosch Lean Coffee is now an SUGSA - affiliated event . Join us for thought - provoking discussions aimed at continuously improving our experiences in agility and helping each other to coach ever - more effective and happy teams ! Date : 22 February , 2:30pm to 4:00pm Location : Polymorph Offices , 2nd Floor , Rhino House , 23 Quantum Road , Technopark , Stellenbosch LaunchLab Talk |Changing Lives Through Technology , Accessibility , Empowerment And Education Join our talk where Luvuyo Rani will share his learnings from his entrepreneurial journey and critical tips to advice along the way from an entrepreneur 's perspective . The talk will be followed by a drinks and a networking session . Date : 23 February , 4:30pm to 5:30pm Location : Nedbank Stellenbosch University LaunchLab , Stellenbosch StartupGrind : Benji Coetzee ( EmptyTrips ) Benji Coetzee is the Founder and CEO of a Tech Startup EmptyTrips . EmptyTrips is the Uber for cargo . It links those with spare capacity in their vehicles with those who need goods transported . Come hear how Benji , a non - technical founder , moved from corporate to creating a tech startup . Date : 21 February , 5:30pm to 7:30pm Location : Standard Bank Incubator , 5 Cradock Ave , Rosebank , Business Networking Focusing on building long - term business relationships through word of mouth referrals . We are looking for professionals in selected industries to join us and were we tap into one another 's networks to grow each of our businesses . Date : 22 February , 7:00am to 8:30am Location : The Street Cafe ( Rosebank Union Church ) , 40 St Andrews Road Cultivate your business for success It is not a sercet that woman succeed 100% at anything they put thier mind to . Especially when women come togther to empower and support each other . Join the launch of the Audacious Women 's Network on the 22nd of February , to experice the raise of young women in business . The networking events puropse is to cultivate entrepreneurial mindset , habits and build key realtionships . Date : 22 February , 6:00pm to 9:00pm Location : The Graft Yard , Heathway Centre , Shop 1048A , Cnr Castle Hill & Beyers Naude Drive , Blackheath MBA for a Night - Nairobi | by ALU School of Business A free interactive workshop for ambitious African business leaders that gives you a taste of ALU 's groundbreaking new MBA experience . Date : 20 February , 6:00pm t0 9:00pm Location : Sankara Nairobi , Woodvale Grove , Nairobi MEST in Kenya- Recruitment Info Session ! Want to know what it 's like to be an Entrepreneur - in - Training at MEST Africa ? Come meet us at Moringa School in Nairobi , Kenya and find out everything you need to know ! We are hosting a meet - up in Nairobi ! For the second year in a row , we are opening up recruitment in Kenya and we 'd like to get to know candidates who are eager to get into MEST in advance of the recruitment and the 2017 application process . Date : 21 February , 6:30pm tp 9:30pm Location : Moringa School , Lane Plaza , Ngong , Nairobi County MBA for a Night - Lagos | by ALU School of Business A free interactive workshop for ambitious African business leaders that gives you a taste of ALU 's groundbreaking new MBA experience . Date : 22 February , 6:00pm to 9:00pm Location : The Wheatbaker Lagos , 4 Onitolo ( Lawrence Road ) , Ikoyi , Lagos Start Up Cocktail- EVOLVE Startup cocktail is aimed at promoting entrepreneurship in our local community by leveraging on technology . It is a Networking event for startups , entrepreneurs , mentors and investors , where learning and sharing experiences take place . It also involves pitching opportunity for new startups and showcasing of those under our incubation program . Date : 23 February , 3:00pm to 5:30pm Location : Benin City , Benin City , Edo 300001 First Agile Lagos Meetup Join the First Agile Lagos Meetup group on Friday , February 24 for Games for Learning about Agile Practices , Methods and Tools for individuals and organizations in breakout groups presented by the Agile Lagos Facilitation Guild . Date : 24 February , 6:00pm Location : Four Points by Sheraton Lagos , Victoria Island , Lagos Synergy Startups- Exploring the Opportunities and Challenges : 1 . What steps / actions do one need do to ensure a successful startup 2 . Exploring the opportunities in this present economy . 3 . How to overcome startup challenges ? Date : 25 February , 12:00pm to 2:30pm Location : Sangotedo , Lekki , Lagos Startup Fundamentals - Developing An Appropriate Funding Strategy Getting funding from investors is always a challenge for startups . Avoiding common pitfalls when raising money can make the difference between your startup 's success or failure and the amount of dilution that founders will suffer that can mean the difference between a great or a dismal exit . This workshop is open to startup founders , startup executives , entrepreneurs , innovators , designers and developers only . Date : 21 February , 6:30pm to 9:30pm Location : online Have a startup event that you 'd like featured on next week 's event roundup ? Send us an email .