FreeFunder founder John Symonds .   Crowdfunding is designed to help people who are low on cash bring their ideas to life and finance big ticket items they could n't otherwise afford . It 's a valuable resource for innovators , creatives , and people who find themselves in a bind , but the five to nine percent service fee that most platforms charge can be a tough pill to swallow . That was the experience of John Symonds , a Seattle developer who wanted to get funding for a short film a few years back . " I wanted to avoid the fees on Kickstarter and GoFundMe , and knew that the success of the campaign was based on my network rather than the platform , " he said . The experience inspired Symonds to build a site that allowed users to create crowdfunding campaigns without turning over a chunk of the returns . After a couple iterations , FreeFunder was born . The site , which has been live since May , makes money from voluntary donations rather than a percentage of campaigns . When users contribute to a campaign , they 're prompted with an option to make a small donation to FreeFunder as well . FreeFunder also donates directly to campaigns when they reach certain sharing milestones on social media . It 's a win for FreeFunder , as shares help the site gain exposure and it helps customers reach their fundraising goals . Symonds shared details on FreeFunder for this Startup Spotlight , a regular GeekWire feature . Continue reading for his answers to our questionnaire . Explain what you do so our parents can understand it : " FreeFunder is a crowdfunding platform very similar to GoFundMe , except there is no 5 percent platform fee . Instead of charging a fee to the campaign owners ( who need the money most ) we promote optional donations directly to FreeFunder when a contributor is making their donation to a campaign . " Inspiration hit us when : " For the first version , it was when we needed to raise money for a short film . For the new version , inspiration hit when I saw that there were other crowdfunding platforms that had figured out different ways to monetize their fundraisers or encourage donations without needing to charge a fee . " VC , Angel or Bootstrap : " Bootstrap ! I began rebuilding FreeFunder on the side while I was still working as the CTO of a Green Building company from Seattle . It took a lot longer to do it that way , but the result was having a site built just the way I wanted it while avoiding the normal startup costs . " Our ' secret sauce ' is : " Something that makes FreeFunder different than any other crowdfunding platform , and the thing that has helped it grow the most , is that we actually donate to campaigns on our platform when they reach different sharing thresholds . This encourages people who visit the fundraising page to share it with their friends even if they ca n't contribute themselves . Having that incentive out there has led to some campaigns getting shared much more often than they would have if the incentive was n't so explicit . " The smartest move we 've made so far : " Adding the sharing incentives . When a campaign gets 100 Facebook shares we donate $ 20 , and when it reaches 500 Facebook shares we donate another $ 50 . Most campaign owners will make this really clear to the people they reach out to , which gets the shares going much faster than they otherwise would . The cost , from an exposure standpoint , is minimal . $ 20 for 100 shares is $ 0.20 per ( organic ) share , which is a steal . " The biggest mistake we 've made so far : " Underestimating the willingness of contributors to donate to FreeFunder . Originally , even on the newer version of FreeFunder , there was a ' Premium ' version that provided a few extra tools . On the premium version , there was a platform fee of 2.9 percent , and I expected that to be better than the completely optional donation rate on the free version . As it turns out , people willingly donate more than that to FreeFunder on average , so we eliminated the premium version and made all of those features available for free . " Would you rather have Gates , Zuckerberg or Bezos in your corner : " That 's a tough one , but I have a sense that Zuckerberg would be more understanding of the scrappy bootstrapping type since he started out with some programming of his own , so I 'll go with Zuckerberg . " Our favorite team - building activity is : " Well I 'm the only employee , but I do consult with several techie friends and have had them do some contract work for me , so I suppose our favorite team - building activity is talking about FreeFunder over drinks . " The biggest thing we look for when hiring is : " FreeFunder has almost doubled in volume each month this year , which is great . Although I haven't hired anyone full - time yet I expect that it 'll happen fairly soon . I 'll be looking for people who like small startups , wearing multiple hats , and have growth - hacking mindsets . " What 's the one piece of advice you 'd give to other entrepreneurs just starting out : " Just get started . Everything will need to adjust , so do n't wait for the most perfect plan . Start working on something and just keep chipping away and making adjustments ! "   