Today , Blink is announcing a full suite of hardware being added to their do - it - yourself home security offerings in anticipation for CES 2017 . A Kickstarter success story , the company initially launched with a wireless , battery powered cameras designed to monitor your home . Last month they announced Blink XT , set to officially launch this week at CES , which will now be accompanied by five new pieces of hardware and monthly service plans . Set for release in Q2 of 2017 , Blink will expand their suite to include a 4 G sync module and battery backup , entry sensors , a 105 decibel siren , keypad for doors and entry points , and a water sensor . The expansion , which includes a 4 G connected sync module , will completely change the game for Blink , as that was one of the only real negatives holding their offerings back in the past . With the new sync module , people will be able to continue to monitor their home and outdoor spaces regardless of an internet connection or loss of power , perhaps the most pressing issue IoT companies face today . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ In the past , Blink did n't offer service or monitoring plans , a huge selling point for DIY home security , but the new hardware will require it . For their standard WiFi sync and camera systems , no plan will be necessary ; however , to use the sensors , siren , and keyboard , people will have to choose between a $ 10 ( self - monitoring ) or $ 20 plan ( third - party monitoring ) . " At Blink , we 've created a core Seecurity philosophy , meaning that the ability to see , and therefore know , exactly what is happening at home from anywhere at any time is vital to achieving true home security and peace of mind , " said Peter Besen , the CEO of Blink . " Operating under that mantra , we have leveraged Blink 's expertise to develop affordable , DIY products with video at the forefront . These new offerings will serve the growing segment of consumers demanding best - in - class , affordable , and fully encompassing home security coupled with the flexibility to keep an eye on their homes while on - the - go . " To date , Blink has shipped more than 250,000 cameras in the past year . The company has also been named a CES 2017 Innovation Awards Honoree . Tech . Co is on the ground at CES 2017 in Las Vegas and we 're covering everything from new tech to innovative startups . Follow our coverage here and make sure to check out all the brand new gadgets hitting the market after the festivities have concluded .