Recently , I came home from work at 10 pm , opened the door and immediately heard my wife say how stressed she was . Her pharmaceutical company recently bought a biotech startup for a lot of money , and my wife is leading a very tough integration project . She works very hard , all the time , and is still behind on things .   The truth was that I was really stressed , too . After my wife finished complaining I complained right back . In general , running a Techstars program is super intense and stressful . This winter , though , just feels unusually challenging and demanding at work for me as well . I am behind on projects , concerned about not doing my best with founders , feel more tired and more stressed . In general , I 've been good at self - introspection , de - stressing and identifying causes of my stress and addressing them . I think this is an important quality particularly because when dealing with startups , the stress tends to be extreme . I want to share tips for how to deal with founder stress , which tends to be amplified nowadays : The first step in dealing with stress is recognizing that you are stressed . Do a self check - in once a week on how you are feeling . Literally , put it on the calendar . If you are stressed , think about the source . What exactly is stressing you out ? Uncertainty about the future ? Fundraising ? Cofounders ? Co - workers ? Whatever it is , figuring out the source of the stress helps address it better . Whenever I feel really stressed , I go to bed . Stress for me is typically combined with physical and mental exhaustion . To deal with it I go straight to bed . I 've never had a situation where I did n't feel better after a full night of sleep . The chemical build up of stress tends to wash out and get garbage collected during the night . We are all sleep deprived these days , especially founders , so extra sleep really helps . Conversely , lack of sleep and repeated stress causes people to malfunction . Literally , our brains do n't work well under repeated stress , can we ca n't think straight . Ongoing sleep deprivation and stress can lead to permanent brain damage , so be sure to catch up on your sleep . Brad Feld has a rule of one week off the grid every quarter . While you , as founder , may not be able to afford this , there is no reason why you ca n't take at least one weekend completely off every few months , and take a week off twice a year . Plan vacations ahead of time , and do n't ignore them . You always comeback refreshed , and ready to go . Give your body and mind the break it needs and deserves . This one is really important , and often founders get this exactly backwards . Startup culture is a culture of unhealthy foods , snacks and drinking . All of these tend to compound stress . Make an effort to plan your meals and to cut out alcohol . Healthy food leads to a less stressed body . Alcohol seems like it relieves stress , but it really does n't . I was drinking to reduce stress when I was running my second company , and developed an addiction . It was pretty bad , as I would drink , a lot , every single day . I quit cold turkey over three years ago and never looked back . If you are founder and catch yourself drinking daily , be mindful that this is a response to stress and can turn into an addiction . Regular exercise is an awesome way to release stress . Personally , I do yoga , running and strength training , and try to exercise every single day . By trying to exercise every day , I end up exercising five to six days a week . I exercise first thing in the morning , because I realized that if I do n't do it then I wo n't get to it at all . Any sort of exercise ( at a gym or participating in sports ) is a great way to destress . Figure out what works for you and commit to it .   Meditation is one activity I 've not been able to incorporate into my daily routine yet . I 've tried meditating a bunch , but never stuck to it . Many investors and founders do it and find it extremely beneficial for mindfulness , and stress relief . Similar to sleep , during the meditation , the brain tends to relax and clear out the clogs and stress that 's building up . Just ten minutes a day can make a massive difference in how you feel . As you probably know , I am a massive productivity nerd and do a lot of scheduling and planning . Uncertainty in the schedule causes stress . Startups in general are chaotic , but sometimes total chaos leads to stress . You need to own your calendar and plan time for everything - meetings , work , email , family time , exercise -- everything you do should be planned and mapped out onto a calendar . Planning helps you clearly know what to do next and it helps you to reduce the stress . This article is courtesy of Techstars , the best global ecosystem for entrepreneurs to bring new technologies to market . From inspiration to IPO , Techstars empowers the world 's most promising entrepreneurs throughout their lifelong journey by providing a global ecosystem made up of tens of thousands of community leaders , founders , mentors , investors , and corporate partners .