Anyone looking for a job knows that they have a strenuous and lengthy process ahead of them , to say the least . Even a teen applying for a causal role at their local McDonald 's has to undergo an elongated online questionnaire that pits them against their fellow selfie - obsessed comrades .   Things become even more complicated when applying for a professional role you 're genuinely interested in within an industry that deviates from your expertise . With Australians constantly being told that the jobs of the future require tech skills - which many , even recent high school and university graduates , do n't have - the idea of upskilling and transitioning careers is in the minds of many .   To help people complete the transition into their dream role is startup Job Toolbox , which provides job seekers with an educational workshop covering the ins and outs of navigating the job application process . The one - day workshops cover topics spanning the entire job seeking process in order to provide attendees with a holistic overview that Job Toolbox founder Andria Wyman - Clarke said can be used to secure a role in an industry . " It 's about giving people the tools to be successful in their job search and future career , " said Wyman - Clarke . The founder herself is an expert on the job application process , having worked in HR for over 25 years across a number of large companies within the mining , retail , pharmaceutical , defence and aeronautics industries .   " I 've interviewed thousands of people and what I saw was that a lot of them , who were probably really solid candidates , either had really poor resumes or interviewed really poorly , " said Wyman - Clarke . Identifying a knowledge gap in the workforce regarding the job application process , the founder saw the potential in developing a method to help train people to fill this gap .   " Job Toolbox is here to address that gaping hole , by giving people the skills they need to get a job , " said Wyman - Clarke . The founder also noticed that a lot of workers were dissatisfied with their current roles , another market for Job Toolbox to tap into .   " Current estimates say between 50 to 80 percent of most people are dissatisfied with their work , depending on which survey you 're looking at , " she said . " When you 're satisfied with your job , your whole well - being is affected . " Wyman - Clarke herself , like many people during their career , had experienced dissatisfaction in a job in the past . Role satisfaction has been a widely debated topic between researchers , with many stating that it increases productivity and general happiness , while some suggest otherwise .   Regardless , the Job Toolbox workshops look to predominantly target employees who are moving one from one professional role to another , although the content has relevance to recent graduates and industry veterans too . " Our audience stretches from 18 year olds who just left school to people approaching retirement age , " said Wyman - Clarke . To educate this wide audience , the startup founder ensured the workshop 's content covers the entire job application process , from figuring out a career objective to practicing for interviews .   Having built the entire toolkit from scratch , the workshop also educates attendees on developing their LinkedIn profile , creating a strong resume , predicting interview questions , and negotiating salary . The workshops run across Australia 's capital cities on a rotating cycle , with Wyman - Clarke herself currently acting as the lone facilitator ; fresh blood is on the way , however .   " These workshops are currently held in capital cities , but we 're hoping we can get some money to move into regional towns , " Wyman - Clarke said , adding she understands the difficulties people living in regional areas can experience when applying to jobs in major cities . Workshop attendees are provided with physical worksheets and templates which are filled out during the session . After being guided through forming a comprehensive career plan , attendees learn how to make their resume " pop " out to recruiters , a factor which the founder highlighted as a vital factor in the job application process . " You really have to have a high quality resume to get to the interview . A lot of people give information that is n't accurate or relevant to the job , " she said . The same notion applies to interviews , where the founder advised that a lot of applicants provide answers that deviate from the relevant topic . Following other activities , the workshop ends on learning how to negotiate a salary , a rather " taboo " topic which is n't often addressed in Australia .   " We look into how to do the research so you know how much you should be getting paid . The entire toolkit is designed to you can re - use it again for any role you apply for in your career , " said the founder . Job Toolbox workshops cost $ 550 to attend , with attendees gaining the option to have follow up chats with staff either face - to - face or over Skype for a smaller fee .   While the workshops are currently offline , Wyman - Clarke said she is looking into developing an e - learning platform later this year to help reach a wider audience about Australia . In the meantime , the Job Toolbox website will be looking to build out its content offering , to give job seekers easy tips .