Sir Hossein Yassaie , chairman of tech industry group TechWorks and former CEO of Imagination Technologies . TechWorks Sir Hossein Yassaie , the former chief executive of Imagination Technologies , has said he " does n't like " Softbank 's acquisition of British chipmaker ARM . Japan 's Softbank bought ARM for PS24 billion last year , the biggest British tech acquisition to date . UK Prime Minister Theresa May has used the acquisition as an example of how the UK can be successful after it leaves the EU . But leading tech figures , like Yassaie , do n't agree . " I 'm one of those people that really does n't like the idea of ARM being acquired by a foreign investor , " he said . " I do n't mind saying it . I know you can paint a positive picture [ of ] inward investment , that 's great , but we need big UK tech companies which are here for the long term and make a big impact . That 's a problem and we need to recognise it . " Yassaie was speaking at the relaunch of NMI , a non - profit organisation for the semiconductor industry . NMI has become TechWorks , and expanded to include " deep tech " like artificial intelligence and the internet of things . The group will lobby government , and try to encourage UK talent to stay in the UK and build businesses . Yassaie is currently the group 's chairman . Speaking to Business Insider , Yassaie said of the ARM acquisition : " As a British entrepreneur , I would prefer firmly based UK companies competing on the global stage , securing business that makes a difference to the country . " SoftBank chairman and CEO Masayoshi Son . REUTERS / Kim Kyung - Hoon He added : " If I had to defend the case ... it 's not bad to have overseas investment in the UK that 's fine , I do n't think that 's something we want to have as normal . " ARM 's founder , Hermann Hauser , made similar comments after the sale . Both he and ARM 's CEO , Simon Segars , sit on TechWorks ' board . Yassaie has been out of the public eye since stepping down as CEO of Imagination Technologies , ARM 's biggest competitor in the UK . He was one of the longest serving British tech CEOs , but resigned last February , when the company said it would make a loss for the year . Yassaie was integral to Imagination Technologies ' deal with Apple , with the company providing graphics and video IP to the iPhone maker . Imagination is in trouble after Apple ditched that partnership , and the company sold two core business units to stay afloat . " I love Imagination Technologies , " Yassaie said , adding about his departure : " It was quite clear the company , or some of the shareholders , wanted a different direction . I 'm still a shareholder , and I believe there 's a lot of technology in Imagination . It has a lot of built - in punch , and I 'll wait to see what happens . " Since his departure , he 's a become a board member and advisor to Bristol - based Ultrahaptics , and Australia - based Atomos , a customer of Imagination Technologies . He 's particularly focused on making sure UK tech talent stays in the UK . Ultrahaptics CEO Steve Cliffee and CTO Tom Carter Ultrahaptics During his TechWorks presentation , he showed Oxford University figures demonstrating that just 11% of UK tech PhD graduates stay in the UK , while 40% move abroad to work for US tech firms . " We create this talent , and lose it to the US , " he said . " We haven't been able to create a Google or Apple yet , but we certainly have the underlying capability to achieve that . Deep tech is at the centre of that . " Yassaie is n't the first tech figure to speak out since the ARM acquisition . Ken Mulvany , CEO of artificial intelligence firm BenevolentAI , has said British startups sell too early . He told Business Insider in February : There 's a real opportunity to build a business in this country , and there 's an opportunity for the country to lead this sector , and all the pieces are in place . We 've got incredible scientists , incredible mathematicians , we 're able to draw all these people into London . "