Ripl Chairman Andrew Wright and CEO Paul Ingalls .   Ripl is raising more cash as the company sees more traction with its app that lets people create visual marketing content . The Seattle startup has reeled in another $ 3 million from existing investors . Trilogy Equity Partners led the round , which pushes total funding to $ 7.5 million to date . Other backers include angel investors like Mike Galgon , Richard Fade , Geoff Entress , Rudy Gadre , Charles Fitzgerald , and others . Ripl 's app lets small businesses -- restaurant owners , fitness instructors , real estate agents , etc . -- create visual content that they can use for social media marketing . It 's a free app , but users can pay $ 9.99 per month to access premium features like additional designs , custom logos , music libraries , scheduled posts , and more . Since last year , the company 's paying customer base has grown by 20X and it just passed 1 million installs of the app , with more than 250,000 active small business users on the platform . It is currently the fourth - highest grossing photo and video app in the App Store . Ripl CEO Paul Ingalls told GeekWire that the vision going forward is to not only provide a way for small business owners to create social media content , but to give them a " marketing team in their pocket . " " We believe we can provide a platform that simply and skillfully reduces the complexity of marketing while keeping the price point at less than three lattes a month , " he noted . Ingalls said he and his 15-person team are big believers in the impact entrepreneurship can have around the world , both from an economic and social standpoint . He sees Ripl as one way to reduce barriers of entry for small business owners and help them sustain their operations . " By providing the skills of a marketing team to these entrepreneurs , we can help increase the success rates of their businesses , " he said . Ripl COO Clay McDaniel said the company will add new features like personalized recommendations and new languages as it aims to give users a holistic marketing tool on their mobile devices . " Our team fervently believes that entrepreneurship is going to be an engine of business growth over the next several decades on a global scale , " McDaniel said . " The mobile internet revolution enables control of your own economic destiny . " Ripl went through a series of pivots before eventually landing on Ripl . Ingalls and Ripl Chairman Andrew Wright , who previously worked together at Redmond - based Smilebox and Seattle - based RealNetworks , originally tried to crack into the sports content business back in 2012 with an app called Fanzo . They quickly realized that Fanzo was not differentiated enough from other sports - related services and shifted to the first iteration of Ripl , which helped social media influencers leverage their online fanbase to make money . Ripl began to see some traction , but the app was n't seeing enough user growth or monetization uptick . The startup decided to narrow its focus on one pillar of the app -- visual content creation -- and that 's what ultimately led to what Ripl is today .         