A range of Australian startups have emerged over the last few years aiming to solve problems for consumers in the financial services space , with one of the particularly hot niches being money management . From personal budgeting apps to robo - investment platforms , it seems there is almost a solution for every need . Coming at money management from a different angle is Sydney startup Nod . Founded by Joel Robbie , Jesse Skelton , and New York - based Adam Parker , the startup looks to help people get financial advice on - demand ; users can ask a question , pick an adviser , receive their advice , pay through the platform , and then be on their way . Robbie identified the need for such a service after three years spent working with his family in their restaurant in Newtown . " It was an emotional purchase which was meant to replace the income of my Dad , who had terminal cancer . The whole thing was just really hard from start to finish , especially for us as people who were n't particularly savvy when it came to money , " he explained . " There was no easy outlet to ask questions when we had them . We agonised over decisions for weeks and months and often the outcome was n't a great one . " So Robbie came up with the idea for a place where people could go when they were stressed about money to find an expert to help them make a good decision quickly . " Our mission is to ensure all people feel confident and in control when it comes to their financial decisions . We think the price of financial advice today means it is only available to rich people and people over 55 , " Robbie said . " That 's why only 20 percent of adults in Australia use a financial adviser , a ridiculously low number . Young people have as much to gain from great advice about money and we 're here to make sure they have access to it . " As such , the startup 's target market are young people - generally those under 35 - who do not currently have a financial adviser but are making big money decisions around things like buying a car or house , getting married , starting a family , or launching a business . " Our pitch to them is that we know they are stressed out about making financial decisions , but that the price to go and see a financial adviser is expensive , it 's inconvenient to go and see someone , and the process is confronting , " Robbie explained . " People do n't necessarily want a comprehensive financial plan for their life , they just want an answer to a question about money that is stressing them out that day . " A customer using Nod would ask a question , receive bids from advisers containing information around cost and their experience , pick an adviser , and then get their advice , wrapping it all up with a payment . If need be , customers can securely connect their bank account to Nod in order to give an adviser a better understanding of their financial situation . Advisers signing on are vetted by Nod after providing information such as their ABN , license details , and their LinkedIn profile . Advisers currently set their own fees , with Robbie explaining that each bid they make it competitive as they understand it 's a marketplace model ; the startup is working on building a ' suggested fee ' function . " Our customers are completely in control of the whole process ; there is transparency for them the whole way along from seeing the bids and credentials of advisers right through to getting their advice . They also do n't pay for their advice until after they receive it , " Robbie said . To further build out its offering for customers , Robbie said Nod is currently building an AI function that will be able to answer questions , as well as identify personalised opportunities for people to invest or save . Though the concept of on - demand , one - off financial advice might be new , there is competition facing Nod in this space depending on what needs consumers have , from traditional financial advisers to the likes of online adviser aggregators such as AdviserRatings robo - investment platforms like Acorns or Stockspot , and personal finance management apps such as MoneyBrilliant . Robbie believes traditional face - to - face advice is " slow , expensive , and not aligned to the on - demand culture developing in society " , while advice through Nod costs " less than the annual cost of a Netflix subscription " . An example on the Nod homepage shows ' Nick ' asking for the best way to consolidate his five super accounts , wondering which he should move them all into ; for $ 35 ' Jessica ' explained he should find the fund with the best returns historically for its members with low fees , provided a list of recommended funds , and asked if Nick would like her to organise the consolidation process on his behalf . Working with a financial adviser on an ongoing basis costs significantly more than $ 35 - but of course , it depends on what you need . After a year of bootstrapping , Nod has this year joined the H2 Accelerator , receiving funding from H2 Ventures . It also won the first local Startup Games , run by the UK Department of International Trade , in Sydney at the end of last month , with the gathered audience awarding the startup PS110 million in virtual funding throughout the course of the day . As part of its prize , the startup will have the chance to travel to the UK as part of a delegation , meeting with the fintech community in London . Robbie said , " Our goals are to grow our business and help as many people as possible get great advice about money . "