The FCC , Congress and the Trump Administration recently reversed proposed rules curtailing internet providers from gathering and selling sensitive customer data to marketers . This new freedom that allows companies like Verizon , AT&T and CenturyLink to enjoy the same data access as internet giants like Facebook , Google and Twitter has increased concern among Americans around internet privacy . What is the impact on entrepreneurs and businesses ? Here are three serious considerations : Consumers have become increasingly connected and are constantly sharing information online . They are researching , purchasing and using online products and services , via any number of connected devices . They are also opting in to share their preferences as part of interactions on social media and search sites . All of this customer data is being collected by device manufacturers , desktop and mobile apps , internet providers and mobile operators for their own purposes or to sell to other businesses . In many cases , consumers are happy to share information like photos , opinions and locations over Facebook , Snapchat and Twitter . But , when it comes to other , often highly personal aspects of their life -- health , wealth and family -- they are more protective . According to a recent survey conducted by my company , AnchorFree , a staggering majority of Americans -- 95 percent -- are concerned about businesses collecting and selling personal information without permission . Additionally , over 80 percent are more concerned about their online privacy and security today than a year ago . This means that your customers are thinking about privacy when they visit your website , use your app , and purchase your products and services . What are you doing to demonstrate to your customers that their privacy is important to your company ? Most businesses today are connected to other business partners in our highly interdependent world commerce . Businesses may be using a hosted webstore , a separate email marketing provider and a different website hosting operation . All of them deploy different ways of dealing with customer 's information . The same goes for other business partners , like affiliate marketing and associations . When businesses offer or receive customer referrals , that information is coming and going and potentially exposed and treated differently by each entity . This distributed approach to information exposure means businesses need to think more broadly and deeply about privacy . Privacy is n't just a few paragraphs that are buried deep in a terms and conditions of use page in your website . Privacy is embedded in everyday interactions with customers . Privacy is something that can impact a brand , disrupt the customer experience and potentially damage a company 's reputation . According to a Harvard Business Review study , 72 percent of Americans are reluctant to share information with businesses because they " just want to maintain [ their ] privacy . " And Deloitte , as a part of a study about consumer trust and data protection , explains that data privacy and security is not just a risk management issue , but a " potential source of competitive advantage that may be a central component of brand - building and corporate reputation . " Privacy should be a product issue , not just a policy issue . Protecting user privacy will enable you to drive more revenue and gain more customers . Safeguarding customer privacy is more than a protective measure ; it is also a strategic opportunity for brand growth and a potential business opportunity for startups and entrepreneurs , as well as large companies . Now that the Administration and Congress are clearing the way for ISPs to collect and sell customer information , more than half of Americans are saying they will investigate additional ways to safeguard their personal information , according to the survey . Much of that concern may stem from the increased number of connected technology devices that contain personal information . Gartner , Inc. forecasts that 8.4 billion connected devices -- everything from phones to new household devices swept into the internet of things market --   will be in use worldwide in 2017 , up 31 percent from 2016 , and will reach 20.4 billion by 2020 . This increase in connected devices , combined with the increasing consumer concern around security and privacy breaches , will further drive the already substantial market opportunity around privacy . While the previous billion - user companies like Google and Facebook have been built on collecting data , it 's projected that the next billion user companies are going to be built around protecting user data . Entrepreneurs and startups have an opportunity to build new business as a result of this emerging reorientation around privacy and trust . Business opportunities will surface around privacy platforms and services for businesses and consumers . There are steps that any business can take to incorporate best practices for protecting customer 's information . First and foremost , start incorporating privacy into your products , not just into your privacy policy . To show that your business takes privacy seriously , provide customers with tips on safeguarding their own privacy when conducting business , such as : These steps and considerations will go a long way in protecting customers ' privacy as well as protecting your business . David Gorodyansky co - founded AnchorFree at the age of 23 with a belief that all users should be in control on the web . Passionate about enabling open communication , social business and changing the world , Gorodyansky set out on a mission to ...