London - based venture capital firm Notion Capital has closed its third fund , Notion Capital III LP , at $ 140 m ( PS107 million ) . The fund 's closure comes almost two years after it was first announced at $ 120 million , and at the time Notion noted that it planned to grow the fund to $ 150 million by the end of 2015 . As announced previously , the pot of cash will go toward enterprise - focused SaaS and cloud startups based in Europe . Notable new investors include Cisco 's VC arm , Cisco Investments , as well as Emory and Texas A&M university endowments in the U.S. and Ireland 's Key Capital . Alongside Notion Capital III , the company also revealed a brand new , separate $ 80 million ( PS60 million ) fund , Notion Capital Opportunities LP , that will be used for later - stage follow - on funding for its existing portfolio of startups . It 's a fairly flexible fund , meaning it can go toward " the best performing " companies in its existing cohort of companies from across all three venture funds . Founded in 2009 , Notion Capital was set up by brothers Ben and Jos White after selling their company , MessageLabs , to Symantec for $ 700 million . Notion Capital 's two previous funds amounted to around $ 150 million in total , so today 's news more than doubles its resources . Additionally , Notion has also appointed two new partners , Chrys Chrysanthou and Patrick Norris , who have been promoted from other positions within the VC firm . " We set up Notion in 2009 in the midst of the worst financial crisis in a generation , at a time when the venture asset class remained unproven in Europe , " explained Notion 's managing partner , Stephen Chandler . " Indeed , our U.S. friends seemed largely dismissive of it . We did this on the back of a very successful exit of our own with MessageLabs , which reinforced our view on the opportunity . The cloud , which sits at the very heart of our investment thesis , means that great entrepreneurs -- of which there are many in Europe ! -- can develop , deploy , sell , and support their product globally in ways that were simply not possible a decade ago - and can create huge value in doing so . "