Studying French through high school and university and then spending a year in France on exchange , language tools like Google Translate were my best friends , helping me decipher what it was that my lecturer on the history of France at sea in the 17th century was actually on about . A new tool looking to help facilitate multilingual communication in real - time is DoTalk , a startup founded in Cairns by Reno Nicastro . The DoTalk platform allows users to message each other via text or speech , with the each user 's communications translated into the other 's language of choice instantly . The app currently supports instant text translation for 90 languages , and instant voice translation for 50 . Nicastro felt the need for such a platform after travelling to Mongolia three years ago to meet with business partners for a fundraising project . " Sitting through eight hour meetings with potential partners and a translator , I felt a sense of frustration communicating through a middleman , " Nicastro explained . " Envisioning how great it would be to have a laptop in front of us both , so we could speak with each other in our own native languages and cut down meeting times by two - thirds , I decided then and there that the world needed a simple solution to allow two parties to speak together , whether they happen to be in the same room or across the other side of the world . " The DoTalk team has melded a number of translation APIs and speech recognition tools to develop the platform , with the main problems to solve being speed and accuracy of the translation . " Successful translation is about translating the sentence quickly . If the translation takes too long , the service is not helpful and we will lose the user , " he said . " Translations in most languages are 80 to 90 percent accurate , other languages 70 to 80 percent accurate . We needed to ensure the translations were accurate enough that the user would get value from using DoTalk versus some other method of translation , [ which ] might be a physical person or other software . " The app works by having a user register and pick their chosen language . From there they can invite friends , noting each other user 's native language . They can then begin messaging each other , with messages translated in real time if they are working in different languages . With development funded by a network of friends and family , Nicastro has focused much time on testing , travelling to five countries last year to see what different people need from the app . He said around 3,000 people then signed up for the app 's beta , from which the key learning gathered was that keeping sentences short and sweet leads to greater accuracy of translations . " The longer the sentence , the more opportunity for errors to creep in , " he said . To combat this , the app reminds users that shorter sentences translate better . There is , of course , still the issue of cultural context and expressions getting lost in translation - that 's how Google Translate always got my class into trouble with our French homework - but this will likely become less of an issue as the system learns . When it comes to users , Nicastro defines DoTalk 's target market as simply " anyone that can gain value from talking to people who speak a different language " . He said , " This could be in business , by helping a supplier and customer communicate . It could be in tourism by helping a traveller and a resort or restaurant communicate better or it could be via a student wanting to talk to another student somewhere else in the world . " The platform has a free tier for one on one conversations , with a premium subscription , starting at US$ 7.99 per month if paid monthly , enabling group chats . The startup is also building out an ' app exchange ' , or third party integrations to add more to its service , particularly important as it looks to develop DoTalk as a business solution . The scope for the app here is significant , with the global language services market - incorporating the linkes of translation , globalisation , and interpretation - estimated to grow to $ 45 billion by 2020 as businesses become increasingly global . Among the other companies working in the space is Doppler Labs , creator of the ' smart listening ' Here One earbuds , which allow the user to set them up to block out certain sounds but allow others , such as a doorbell or phone ringing , to get through . The company 's big plans for the Here One include real - time , in - ear translation , with Doppler Labs ' vice president of research and development Jeff Baker saying , " Language is audio , and it 's a pretty amazing thing to do , to alter language . "