Looking to get into the South African startup scene or scratch up on some of your skills ? Well , you 've come to the right place . There are loads of competitions , networking sessions and workshops happening around South Africa and the rest of the continent ( namely Kenya , Nigeria and Ghana ) that we 've rounded up to make your life a bit easier . This article is part of a weekly series that highlights all the top startup competitions , networking sessions , workshops and conferences around South Africa , and the greater region . If you have any event recommendations for us to add to the list , or next week 's , please let us know in the comments below or send us an email . Not all of the events are free and some will require booking in advance . Please click on the event names to find out more information . Lean ( Startup ) Coffee For people working in startups , lean ( startup ) coffee is a weekly 1-hour coffee that runs a mash - up of leancoffee.org with theleanstartup.com . Unlike other startup meetups , lean ( startup ) coffee is agendaless , speakerless and talks about what you care about . We each propose topics , vote on them and talk about the most popular ones for a few minutes . Come visit to see how it works . Date : 25 January , 8:30 m to 9:30am Location : TRUTH . coffeecult , 1 Somerset Road , Green Point Techstars-4-A - Day After the successful first programme in 2016 the Barclays Accelerator , powered by Techstars , will be launching another cohort in 2017 . To learn more about the Accelerator , join us for the Techstars-4-a - Day event . Techstars-4-a - day offers a sneak peak into Techstars . The day event will showcase each aspect of a Techstars program : Date : 25 January , 9:00am to 6:30pm Location : Barclays Rise , 5th Floor , Block B , Woodstock Exchange , 66 Albert Road Elevating team performance through effective communication Why do some teams succeed and others , in the same environment , fail ? The answer is communication . Patterns of communication are the greatest predictor of team performance - more than personality , skill and substance combined . The key lies not in the volume or content but rather in the manner in which team members communicate with each other . This talk will outline the elements of communication displayed within successful teams and take participants through retrospective activities that will help Scrum teams develop strategies for better communication . Date : 26 January , 6:00pm to 9:00pm Location : CODEX , P3 Terrace Level , Portswood Square , Portswood Rd , V & A Waterfront Startup Grind : Matsi Modise ( SiMODiSA ) Matsi Modise is the Managing Director of SiMODiSA , an industry association whose mission is to accelerate entrepreneurship in South Africa . She is the founder of Furaha Afrika Holding ( Pty ) Ltd and former National Executive Director of the South African Black Entrepreneurs Forum ( SABEF ) . Date : 24 January , 6:00pm to 9:00pm Location : Standard Bank Incubator , 5 Cradock Ave , Rosebank Business Networking Focusing on building long term business relationships through word of mouth referrals . We are looking for professionals in selected industries to join us and were we tap into one another 's networks to grow each of our businesses . Date : 25 January , 7:00am to 8:30am Location : The Street Cafe ( Rosebank Union Church ) , 40 St Andrews Road Breakfast Business Networking The Purpose of this Business Networking meeting is to offer you the business owner a networking platform to promote your business / service . To meet new like minded business owners . Date : 25 January , 8:30am Location : Piza e Vino Eagles Landing , Corner of Scott and Christiaan de Wet Rd , Randpark Ridge Tshwane Entrepreneurial Talk It'ss a program designed to develop young people into entrepreneurship , providing them with a platform to interact with prominent business leaders and Government Institutions . The very most idea of the entrepreneurial Talk is to motivate both current and aspiring entrepreneurs and change their mindset about entrepreneurship . We aim to turn entrepreneurship into a lifestyle in South Africa . Date : 27 January , 11:00am to 1:00pm Location : Es'kia Mphahlele Community Library , 347 Vermeulen Street , Pretoria # WhatsNext FinTech in Partnership with Visa Nest in partnership with Visa are hosting a forum on the future of finance and technology on the 25th of January at Metta Nairobi ( 6F Belgravia Building at 14 Riverside ) in the early evening . The event dubbed # WhatsNext brings together some of the most brilliant people in payments space to ask them , # WhatsNext ? Date : 25 January , 5:00pm to 8:00pm Location : Metta Nairobi , 14 Riverside Drive , Nairobi , Nairobi County Entrepreneurial meeting : 2017 kick off This year we kick off 2017 in a high note . With our first entrepreneurs meet up in Nairobi . Are you an aspiring entrepreneur , do you have a start up , are you investing in something , are you looking for and investor , do you want to grow your nextworks , Date : 27 January , 5:00pm to 8:00pm Location : Diamond Hotel , Tom Mboya Street , Nairobi City , Nairobi County The Entrepreneurs forum There is never a perfect time to LIVE your DREAM . YOU are the DREAM and the TIME is NOW to awaken yourself by acting it out . You do n't have to be great to get started but you have to get started to be great . Today is the day to change your course of action ; Join us at our Entrepreneurs Forum and begin your journey to a life of financial freedom . Date : 26 January , 12:00pm to 2:00pm Location : Surulere , 103 , Ojuelegba road , Surulere , Lagos , Lagos Womenpreneur Seminar for Women Entrepreneurs in Nigeria A successful business is usually evidence of a highly skilled and informed business owner . Come and learn a variety of skills such as book - keeping , pricing , marketing and many more designed to give your business the extra edge needed to succeed . Date : 26 January , 9:00am to 4:00pm Location : Ibadan , Mauve 21 Event Centre , MKO Abiola Way ( Ring Road ) , Ibadan , Ibadan , Oyo 8 Things that drive the value of a business This webinar hosted by Steve Sutton on the 8 Things That Drive Company Value is dedicated to business owners . If you 're like a lot of entrepreneurs , you use your Profit & Loss statement as your report card at the end of the year . You may even use your P&L to figure out what your company is worth by applying a multiple to your profit . Date : 26 January , 6:00pm Location : Online    Have a startup event that you 'd like featured on next week 's event roundup ? Send us an email . Feature image : Jorge Lascar via Flickr .