Maple Maple , a food delivery startup that launched in New York City in 2015 , announced in a letter that it will be closing shop today . " Over the past several months we 've been spending most of our time thinking about the future of our business -- what comes next for Maple ? The more time we spent trying to answer this question , the more evident it became that of all the paths we had contemplated , the most compelling next step in Maple 's story involved a shift from our current approach , " the letter reads . " While an incredibly difficult decision for us given the effect on our core operations , it became clear that we needed to close the Maple operation here in New York and look for a partner with scale -- one that would allow us to leverage all that we had built across a broader platform . " Maple had a preset menu for lunch and dinner every day of the week , excluding Saturdays . Meals could be ordered on Seamless , Maple 's homepage , or on Maple 's app , which is available on both iOS and Android . Each meal is whipped up by line cooks in one of the startup 's five kitchens before being handed over to a delivery person who brings it to its destination . Maple was founded by Caleb Merkl and Akshay Navle . It raised $ 22 million in Series A funding in March 2015 . Greenoaks Capital led the round , with contributions from Thrive Capital , Primary Ventures , Bonobos CEO Andy Dunn , and Momofuku founder David Chang . It had previously raised $ 4 million in seed funding in November 2014 . According to leaked documents that were reported on by Recode in December , Maple appeared to have lost money on every meal in 2015 , though it began earning a profit of 30 cents per meal by March 2016 . The documents showed that the startup was forecasting an operating loss of $ 16 million for 2016 . In an increasingly competitive space , Maple is n't the only food delivery startup to struggle and sell its parts to a competitor . Last March , SpoonRocket , a California - based delivery service , shut down and sold its IP to a Brazil - based company . In its footsteps , startups like Din and Bento have also closed down . Deliveroo , which is absorbing some of the Maple team , is one of the highly - funded competitors trying to take on incumbents like Seamless parent company GrubHub and UberEats . Deliveroo has raised nearly half a billion dollars from investors including Yuri Milner 's DST Global , Accel Partners , and General Catalyst .