startup pitches . Company : Instasleep . Headquarters : Brooklyn , New York . Founding Team : Dr Robert Lee , Why we like it : According to statistics , one in three Americans do n't get enough sleep . You might ask in our busy life what even is sleep , let alone enough sleep ? In fact it is a necessary seven hours or more a day that takes us away from the concerns of our lives and lets our dreams flourish . Now it actually sounds pretty important . However , these poor statistics are n't limited just to the US , this ratio is shared across , Canada , Ireland and the United Kingdom , among other countries .   So if life is tying you down a little too much , it might be a good idea to consider functioning methods to walk you along the right track ... well let 's say lie you still on the right path . Instasleep is a drug - free sleep aid formulated by physicians . It contains a unique combination of 5-HTP , GABA and Melatonin . While it may sound strange , this is no nasty tasting concoction . It 's simply a non - addictive , quick - dissolving Mint Melt that pops into your mouth and does the trick . These acids and herbal supplements work together to naturally enhance sleep . 5-HTP promotes calm and deep sleep , GABA helps with relaxation and melatonin helps signal your body and mind to actually fall asleep . Going back to our trusty statistics for sleep time in the US , the mining industry shows to be one of the most affected industries with 41.6 per cent of workers getting insufficient sleep . In other industries the facts show that this includes 38 per cent of utility workers , 32 per cent of healthcare and social assistance workers and 30.3 per cent of retail workers . While some of these workers might truly be running low on time , at the very least they should have effective and quality sleep to get up and running the next day .   There 's always methods to train your body to get efficient sleep -a dark room , consistent schedules , regular exposure to sunlight , regular exercise and relaxing activities prior to sleeping , but if you 're not dedicating the time to these strategies , a helping hand might do the trick instead .   