Unlike bar trivia , startup competitions are about more than just winning . While the prizes , the attention , and the bragging rights are certainly beneficial to any company looking to make it big , there are more than enough benefits to taking part in a startup competition that do n't involve taking home the crown . And Tech . Co 's Startup of the Year competition at our annual conference , Innovate ! and Celebrate , is the perfect example of these kinds of added bonuses . The benefits of participating in the Startup of the Year competition are undeniable , particularly when you ask former contestants that have gone on to experience success without winning . And if you 're curious about these benefits that are n't winning , take a look below : There 's no denying that startup competitions are the best place to network . Not only are you surrounded by peers with innovative ideas that could change the world , you 're also rubbing shoulders with some of the most influential entrepreneurs and investors on the scene in the form of judges , mentors , and speakers at the competition . Last year , notable minds like Jeff Clavier , Lo Toney , and Lisa Lambert were all in attendance . And trust us when we say that this year 's competition is no different . " The opportunity to network with founders from Silicon Valley is really unparalleled , " said Garrett Moon , CEO and cofounder of CoSchedule . " There was tons of energy and excitement during the entire event and working with other founders spurred a wealth of ideation and momentum beyond . " While the Startup of the Year competition is one of the main focuses of our annual conference , it 's important to remember that it 's not the only focus . Startup founders , employees , and attendees will be privileged to one - on - one mentor sessions with some of the most innovative minds in attendance . From tech titans to serial entrepreneurs , you 'll be able to get all the ideas you 'll ever need from these quick sessions . Even if you do n't win , the Startup of the Year competition helps entrepreneurs get noticed , through video coverage and Tech . Co articles , all while placing you in front of notable investors throughout the conference . Plus , there are plenty of opportunities to be had outside of the conference as well , as past contestants have been all too happy to share . " The accolades and recognition were wonderful and very uplifting to the team , but the very best thing was the booth we received at CES in January , " said Paul Droege , founder and CEO of SunPort . " The fact it was free was nice but it had an amazing , high - traffic location which was awesome . " Being an entrepreneur can be stressful , maddening , and downright unenjoyable at times . However , the Startup of the Year competition brings together like - minded individuals from across the world in an effort to spur innovation , develop startup support , and have a little fun . The conference is filled with engaging workshops and driven people that , when you take some time to relax , could help you wind down that high strung mentality that entrepreneurship has placed on you . If you think you have what it takes to be the Startup of the Year , you need to apply today . Remember , the 100 startups that are chosen will be invited to join us in San Francisco , CA for Innovate ! and Celebrate 2017 , and will be on their way to startup success in no time ! Read more about the Startup of the Year Competition here on Tech . Co