We 've all heard the saying : you are what you eat . For food , this is clearly not a literal saying , but what we consume does contribute to our health and that is why quality is so important . This particularly true when it comes to meat , as many grocery stores are unnecessarily vague about where specifically your food comes from . As a result , more restaurants have embraced the farm - to - table concept , not only informing us of where the food comes from , but also ensuring its freshness due to less time in transit . But what if you want beef from that same local rancher ? In most cases it 's an arduous , antiquated process consisting of going to the ranch , getting on a list , and then freezing an excessive amount of beef in a deep freezer . A growing startup , Crowd Cow , is changing this one cut of beef at a time . More specifically , Crowd Cow allows consumers to crowdfund , or crowd carve up an entire cow , selecting various cuts of beef . In addition to picking the cuts , they also provide details regarding the type of cow , location it was raised , types of food it ate , and even how the rancher cared for the cow .   If the concept sounds familiar that 's because it 's a new take on an old approach . In the past if you wanted to know exactly where your beef came from you 'd have to go either to the farmers market or to a rancher ( sometimes you 'll get lucky with a great local butcher ) . When working with a rancher , typically you 're buying a large portion of the cow , and that means you 'll have nearly an endless amount of beef if your freezer at all times . I first learned of the concept in college when a friend brought over an entire cooler filled with steaks to store in our freezer because she ran out of space in her own . And if there is one thing a college kitchen needs is more freezer space for the wonderfully terrible food we ate . Between technology , Crowd Cow 's innovative approach to shipping , and tapping into the largest pool of meat eaters in the US ( the internet ) , they effectively add a much desired component to beef buying , knowledge . One could argue that this does remove some of the locality out of the process ; however , the team behind the beef is no stranger to food or programming ( founders of Urbanspoon and Snapvine ) , which ensures the beef gets to you in the most optimal way using the ideal temperature along the way . On top of this , as the company finishes up its nationwide rollout , more and more local ranches will become accessible , bringing your local ranches right to your door . How important is knowledge about where your food comes ? For starters , it 's worth at least $ 2 million in seed funding that Crowd Cow closed this January , including funds from NFL hall of famer Joe Montana . As a meal prepper , knowing about my food is just as important as figuring out what I 'm going to torture myself with for the next five days of lunches . With Crowd Cow , not only do you get the basics , you get first - hand information about how it was raised and cared for .   For example , at the time of writing , Crowd Cow currently has a cow from Spanaway , WA on the block . Hailing from the Harlow Cattle Company , their cows are premium quality angus hereford crosses that are raised on 320 acres of prairie land where they 've fed on grass their entire life . If that 's not enough , here 's a sampling of information straight from the rancher herself ( more here ) : " I have not hired help running the ranch and cattle operation . Day and night , rain and shine , 24x7 , 365 days a year , from bucking hay to vetting calves , weighing steers to mending fences , round - ups to bookkeeping , mud and manure , dust and dirt , I do all the ranch work myself , " stated Becky Harlow Weed . What you 're getting with Crowd Cow is access to small , sustainable farms . Sure , on the surface the crowdfunding component is a bit of a gimmick , but by going in together with other people who care about what they eat , it ensures the entire cow will be used . " You can go to the farmers market , if you remember , and maybe he has the cut you want or maybe did n't bring it . We are trying to get people a lot more access to beef they can feel really good about . I love local , and I love the idea of people being able to try things from various places , " said Crowd Cow Cofounder Ethan Lowry . The best comparison to what they Crowd Cow is creating can be seen in the craft beer market . If you are on the east coast you can easily get beer from the Chicago , DC , or Baltimore regions , including their specialty beers , but if you head over to California you 're less likely to find Dogfish Head 120 Minute IPA . For those in California , they get the coveted Pliny the Elder , with little to no distribution elsewhere . Just the same , Crowd Cow is not just acting as the distributor for locally and sustainably raised beef , it 's generating revenue for the little guys and gals . " Our farms have distinctive flavors . Not just this homogeneous food they 've been used to . Each farmer / rancher and even breed affects the taste . I love the idea of people developing an affinity for the one they want , " said Lowry . Crowd Cow is a Seattle - based startup and is rolling out their nationwide offering . Until now they have primarily offered their small sustainable beer to the West Coast region , but are now on a mission to connect with ranchers outside the industrial beef industry . Read more about startups emerging in Seattle here at Tech . Co