To get the word out about all the startup energy and innovations happening in one 's community , you have to make some noise . As J.D. Vance said : " We should all be zealots for [ our communities ] and bring attention to the good things that are happening in our ecosystems . We are all in this together and making an effort to expand cities , " Vance said . Each week Tech . Co will be making some noise and highlighting five startups from around the country for the Startup Spotlight that showcases their innovation . A content distribution platform that focuses on assisting and empowering marketers trying to reach their target audience and publishers looking for new opportunities to monetize their websites . With Adsy , marketers will have the opportunity to receive content distribution on relevant websites of numerous varieties , anti - fraud control , guarantee of content placement , open inventory and bidding to choose publishers , the opportunity to directly be in contact with the publisher , and the right filters to be able to choose the best publisher . Publishers who use Adsy will receive great rewards for their work , quality content , a reliable and trustworthy series of payments , transparency , content control , and the ability to directly communicate with marketers . Adsy 's main goal is to link publishers and marketers together to form a fruitful symbiosis . While they are still developing the main functionality of their website , you can register and also provide feedback and requests for new features . An loT platform and hardware that was influenced by the military 's use of advanced technology for counterterrorism . But instead of catching terrorists , Flux wants to use this grade of technology to understand nature and the environment around us . Their first product is Eddy , a growbot that assists in growing food and high - grade medical cannabis at home . Team Eddy is working on a future project to make farming easier for astronauts and allow future travelers to Mars an easy pathway to grow fresh food and natural medicine . They will be going to Innovate Celebrate to compete . A ride share platform that has partnered with Lyft to provide on - demand non - emergency medical transportation . SPLT 's goal is to mitigate the clogging traffic and save money , time , and productivity . SPLT utilizes corporate carpooling as another tool to reach this goal . SPLT was one of the winners at SXSW Startup Night . Enhances storytelling by using voice recognition to sync your voice with special sound effects . As you read a story , theme music , sound effects , and in - story characters ' voices will pop out and ultimately provide the listener a more immersive and absorbing experience . This patented technology is completely unique . A social impact company that provides self - defense wearable technology that looks fashionable to women in order to deter predators and attackers from preying on them . Their product , Athena , includes a loud alarm and a silent alarm . ROAR for Good is starting a movement with their products to address the problem of violence against women . Part of the proceeds from their product go to educational programs . Read more about startups here at Tech . Co . This is our new , premium Weekly Spotlight Announcement Series . Learn more about how your company or crowdfunding project can be included and reach thousands of readers around the country , including influencers , investors and more .