Numerous moving companies operate within the United States . Thousands of moving companies are available across the Nation . We can see a high number of family - run moving companies in counties and small towns . The people that live in small towns prefer the personal element in moving companies . However , many people deal with the daunting task of finding good and able movers . The best option is to tap the renowned moving companies in the country . Well - known companies exist . The best providers do not only handle one of the best companies ; they also insure and license the shipment in case some form of damage occurs . Following are the 7 best household moving companies in the United States : Allied Van Lines has gained its reputation , and started its online journey seven years ago , in 2009 . The head office is in Texas and is one of the largest moving companies across the globe . The company has been in the game for more than 85 years , and that gives them an edge over many other start - ups . The one special element about this company its Global appeal , and availability in countries other than the U.S.A. Mayflower Transit has been active for more than 80 years . The company has been active across the nation since 1927 . The excellence in services and the price range is the main highlight when hiring the services . More than 500 agents are available . The service is available at more than 650 locations . The primary services provided are the standard packaging techniques , for cargo , and safe packing services . Mayflower also offers inventories and innovative technologies . Also , it offers online accessibility to tracking and claiming processes . United Van Lines is one of the largest moving companies in America today and has gained the third spot on the list . The headquarters are in Fenton , Missouri . Also , the company has a broad range of services for movers with more than 400 agents available across the nation . The company has mastered the relocation services . The many options include moving containers , full - service moving , storage services , corporate relocations , and also international moving . North American moving services , is an internationally recognized moving service . The service is known in areas other than the North American region , contrary to what the title suggests . The representatives are abundant in every state across America and are also available in more than 175 countries across the globe . The many customers that have hired their services stand by the service quality offered . The North American crew is the most promoted , and accepted ones in the nation . Many clients that have hired the team re - hire the service provider time and again . Airpin Van Lines is a private service provider company . The company has been active in providing global and domestic storage and moving services .   The company is placed under the Arpin Group and contains its headquarters in Rhode Island . Also , it has over 330 agents within the United States . Various centers exist across the globe , and that are concerned with strategic services ' provision . The company has been in the service industry for more than 100 years , and the dedication , expertise , and passion they show for the job is worth mentioning . The company started their business in 1945 . They led their first moving order from Ohio to Michigan which resulted in the branching of the business . The company has hereto forth grown bigger in their business dealings . The company has made a global impact and contained more than 250 agents worldwide . 4000 employees work across 52 nations . Their services have shown a proven track record , and they are also striving to go green , and reduce the impact many tools have in the environment . The last moving company on our list is Bekons . It is a relatively new company . John and Martin found it in Indianapolis . It only contained 12 employees and three horse - drawn carriages . They are one of the bigger movers in the nation . They handle around 250 locations in the United States . The primary specialties they have are the goods and the innovations they offer . It is always a good idea to hire professional services in case cross - state services are needed . For everyone involved , moving is a hard job ; may it be the household members or the movers . However , professionals have more experience . The U.S. Census Bureau also estimated that we move an average of 12 times in one lifetime .