Minister for Industry , Innovation and Science Arthur Sinodinos has announced funding of $ 151.5 million to develop four new Cooperative Research Centres ( CRC ) dealing with food , agtech and transport to fund the development of innovative research and technologies in each sector . The announcement comes as part of the CRC program 's 18th funding round since its inception in 1990 , when it was established as a non - profit focused on pursuing the progression of science across various industries .   To be delivered over 10 years , over $ 39 million will be contributed to a CRC dealing with High Performance Soils , intended to help evolve farm management processes and solve a number of complex soil management issues .   Seven million dollars will go towards a new CRC for Honey Bee Products to help improve honey production and maintenance techniques . At the higher end , $ 50 million over ten years is set towards a Food Agility CRC to fuel digital innovation around the food industry , while $ 55 million over the same period will go towards the new iMove centre , which will focus on evolving traveltech to help ease traffic flow and fuel emission .   With the government backing , each centre will look to connect researchers , institutions , government and startups working in an industry together to collaborate and tackle each sector 's unique issues .   Helming the Food Agility CRC as one of the lead partners is global professional services company KPMG .   Speaking about the announcement , KPMG Australia 's Head of Management Consulting , Ian Hancock , said that the company is excited to playing an " active role " in growing foodtech innovation . " We believe the Food Agility CRC is at the core of innovation for the industry . Today 's announcement ... is a strong signal that food is a major manufacturing sector of the future , and that there is commitment to global advancement through a digital technolgy path , " said Hancock . KPMG National Internet of Things ( IoT ) Practice Leader Piers Hogarth - Scott , added that the new CRC aligns itself with the firm 's 2017 focus on evolving foodtech , agtech , and IoT. " Smart food and fibre is a key focus sector of our Internet of Things practice . Our investment in the Food Agility CRC supports our strategy of helping clients unlock the substantial economic , environmental and social challenges facing the industry in Australia . " The Food Agility CRC already has a number of projects in the pipeline which harness IoT , including a horticulture initiative which will see researchers using IoT to help improve the shelf life of bagged lettuce by using data to help optimise harvesting , export and on - shelf time .   Other projects include using data to improve food export markets and finance benchmarks . For partnership in the upcoming projects , a bid consortium led by the Knowledge Economy at the University of Technology Sydney ( UTS ) alongside Queensland University of Technology ( QUT ) and Curtin University has raised over $ 160 million in commitments to accelerate each proposal . QUT 's Professor Bronwyn Harch , who will be heading up the Food Agility CRC as Research Director , said the project 's frameworks are designed to improve Australia 's food value chain and help increase the industries commercial value . " Our research programmes will create digitally - enabled solutions by focusing on hardware , software and liveware . That means addressing the sensor and communication technologies that underpin data across food value chains and transforming poorly designed , utilised and connected data into information and insights for decision making , " said Harch . " [ Also ] , ensuring the best practices are integrated into the workflows of governments , industry and consumers , and building a capable workforce . "