Salesforce is looking to take its AppExchange to the next phase to better address the increased demand for subscription - based services within the enterprise . Today the company launched a partner program that replaces the existing independent software vendor ( ISV ) program with a completely new pricing model , support , and onboarding experience and an additional set of tools . To encourage development , Salesforce has allocated $ 100 million to incentivizing developers , startups , and ISVs . " The convergence of [ artificial intelligence , Internet of Things ] , and massive datasets has created incredible new opportunities for developers to move beyond the app and build components , intelligent bots , data streams , and more , " explained Leyla Seka , Salesforce 's executive vice president for its AppExchange . " The new AppExchange Partner Program empowers the next generation of Salesforce ISVs with a single destination for everything they need to succeed -- the training to create solutions on cutting - edge Salesforce technology and the programs to turn them into businesses with global reach . " Salesforce launched the AppExchange 11 years ago , and since that time more than 3,000 apps have been added to the marketplace and installed more than 4 million times . But a lot has changed since then -- not only at Salesforce , but also in the startup ecosystem . In order to adapt to this changing landscape , the partner program had to adapt . Here are the changes coming to the AppExchange partner program : " This is a great moment to double down because there 's so much interest in Einstein , Lightning , and Trailhead , " Seka shared . " It exemplifies our demonstration of commitment to building the largest ecosystem in the world for the enterprise . " Moving forward , a big focus will be on Salesforce 's $ 100 million platform fund that 's provided through the company 's venture arm . Though this is n't the first such investment vehicle Salesforce has created , this one is aimed squarely at building out the ecosystem to address the needs of the enterprise . According to Matt Garratt , a vice president for Salesforce Ventures , developers awarded funds will have to build something that 's in strategic alignment with the company and will help " deliver a much better solution to our customers . " While Garratt declined to disclose what an average deal size would be , the firm will invest in Series A , B , and C funding stages . Salesforce is n't going to be alone in terms of investing in startups . Garratt said that Salesforce will be working similarly to the way it did with the $ 50 million Lightning Fund , when the company partnered with Bessemer Venture Partners , Cloud Apps Capital Partners , Emergence Capital , Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers , and Lightspeed Venture Partners . Salesforce has already allocated more than $ 350 million for startups , to be spread across four funds .