Startups in Latin America are using creative solutions to address not just local but also global problems . For investors outside the region , the prospect of working with these startups can appear attractive , yet complicated . Investing in early - stage startups in Latin America can present challenges ; however , despite the challenges , time and time again I 've found it can be well worth the effort . When I first came to Santiago , Chile in 2010 as part of the pilot round of Start - Up Chile , there was hardly any talk of startups . Most people did n't even know what startups were . Within nine months of returning to the U.S. , the company I co - founded was acquired . So I decided to go back to Chile to look for more opportunities in this emerging market . Over the next couple of years , I taught entrepreneurship in Chile , mentored local entrepreneurs and eventually started investing in Latin American companies myself . I 've now invested in more than 30 early - stage companies in Latin America , and I firmly believe the time to help early - stage startups in Latin America has never been better . Here 's why . Some of the earliest VC firms established in the region , such as NXTP Labs in Argentina and Vox Capital in Brazil , have paved the way for others to find success . In a region that is traditionally very averse to risk and tends to condemn failure , these firms took a chance on budding ventures long before others dreamed of doing so . These pioneer VC firms in the region faced plenty of challenges . First , they had to educate and develop the expectations of local entrepreneurs so that they realized that Latin America is not Silicon Valley , with easy access to venture capital and U.S .- style valuations . But their successes and failures have served as exemplary models for many of the new early - stage funding initiatives we 're seeing . As the startup ecosystem in Latin America evolved , the flow and ease of doing early - stage deals improved significantly and encouraged more investment in the region . A look into five - year investment trends in Latin America revealed that investors had closed deals worth $ 2.3 billion , according to the Latin American Venture Capital Association ( LAVCA ) . In the past few years , we 've also started to see VC - backed startups begin to give back to the community and participate as investors themselves , either as angels or limited partners in funds . One example is Colombian - American entrepreneur - turned - investor , Andres Barreto . He launched several startups , including Grooveshark and PulsoSocial , and , in 2012 , he started the investment firm Socialatom Ventures . The Colombian firm , which recently raised a second fund called Firstrock Capital , invests in early - stage companies and provides them with resources to grow their companies . The firm is still active and now focuses on early - stage startups that have their technology team in Latin America but whose target market is the U.S. ( Disclosure : My firm , Magma Partners , has participated in two co - investments with Socialatom Ventures . ) There 's no debating that the proliferation of accelerators and local entrepreneurs gaining experience in each of the key startup hubs across Latin America -- such as in Buenos Aires , Santiago and Medellin -- has impacted the region 's funding ecosystem as a whole . A 2014 study of accelerators found that just the presence of an accelerator can have an impact on the number of seed and early - stage VC deals in a local startup ecosystem . This " spillover effect " is certainly something I 've witnessed in Latin America . The growing number of early - stage accelerator programs , such as Start - Up Chile and Wayra , have had a lot to do with putting the region on the map as a hotspot for startup activity . These programs are showing outside investors that Latin America possesses abundant opportunities worth exploring . Startups are disrupting all sectors of the economy , but the main sector of Latin America witnessing the most change is the traditional banking industry . Because there is still such a large unbanked population in the region , fintech startups are discovering plenty of opportunities to succeed . According to Finnovista , the number of fintech startups in the region recently surpassed 1,000 . Strategic partners in traditional businesses and regulatory approval from government , along with funding for the initial stages , are needed to scale these companies both locally and globally , and investors are on board .   LAVCA showed startups in the fintech sector received more investment in 2015 than any other startup sector in the region . Fintech accounted for almost 30 percent of the entire IT sector 's investment in 2015 , and 40 percent in the first half of 2016 . The global startup network Startupbootcamp recently announced its expansion to Latin America by launching a dedicated fintech program in Mexico in a joint effort with Finnovista . Over the past four years , Finnovista claims they 've witnessed how fintech startups have shaped financial services in the region and recognized that these companies can not scale by themselves . The program aims to provide fintech startups in Mexico , and beyond , access to the funding and mentorship needed to grow their companies . Seedstars , too , traveled around Latin America over the past few years to find top entrepreneurs and connect them with global investors and partners . This year , focus has been on fintech innovations coming out of the region . Colombian crowd factoring startup Mesfix and Brazilian financial planning services startup QueroQuitar were selected as finalists to present at the Seedstars Summit .   Related Articles Brazil : A look into Latin America 's largest startup ecosystem Why have some of Silicon Valley 's top investors started investing in Latin America ? Beek is the emoji - based book review site aiming to change e - commerce in Latin America   500 Startups is increasing its seed - stage funding efforts in Latin America . With a new $ 10 million fund in partnership with the International Finance Corporation ( IFC ) , 500 Startups aims to provide early - stage funding to 120 Latin American companies this year to help top founders succeed . Google recently selected more than a dozen Latin American startups for its Launchpad Accelerator program aimed at helping local startups reach their full potential by leveraging Google 's global reach and resources . Microsoft has set up the BR Startups fund in Brazil to help fill the gap between early capital and larger rounds , investing in 70 startups to date . Payments giant Visa also launched an acceleration program to assist new ventures in the fintech space in Brazil with their business models and fundraising . It was n't long ago that venture capitalists focused their efforts elsewhere , and Latin American startups had little to no access to early - stage financing for their companies . But as attitudes have changed , and both organizations and governments have begun fostering entrepreneurial ecosystems across the region , investment opportunities and activity in Latin American startups have been steadily on the rise . Momentum is building , with success stories like Brazil 's Nubank and Argentina 's IguanaFix becoming a regular occurrence , and there 's never been a better time than now to be involved with the Latin American startup scene .