Investment firms , AfricInvest and Bpifrance have announced a joint French - African Fund ( FFA ) which will aim to invest in top small and medium businesses within Africa and France . The FFA will be managed by AfricInvest , a pan - African private equity firm focused on mid - cap investments with almost EUR1-billion of funds under their management . They also have offices in six African countries and more in France . " The cornerstone of the strategy for the French African Fund -- the first cross - border fund between Africa and France -- rests in AfricInvest 's ability to help French companies grow in Africa , and at the same time attract African companies to the French market , " said Bpifrance 's Fund of Funds executive director , Benjamin Paternot in a press release . Investors subscribed to the fund include Bpifrance , Societe Generale and Orange as well as Proparco . A quarter of the fund also came from African investors including Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale de Cote d'Ivoire , Saham , Financecom as well as the Central Bank of Kenya Pension Fund . The fund is also subscribed to by private investors from Kenya and Nigeria as well as AfricInvest . " The quality of AfricInvest 's experience -- through its diverse team based in France and across Africa -- as the well as the development potential of the African continent , have together attracted the highest quality partners in the private sector both in France and in Africa , " continued Paternot . Along with managing the fund , AfricInvest will also be helping French companies with their expansion into various African markets as well as help African companies expand their reach into France and other EU markets . The FFA has pledged half of its capital towards French SMMEs who plan on entering the African market . The investments will be in the form of equity participation , which will generally be through minority stakes . The other half of the fund 's capital will be for African startups displaying a high potential for growth .