Do n't just pick a title . Pick the role that you 're best suited for as a founder . Prior to founding Adored , I was the CTO of Dyn , an engineering - first internet performance company . I thoroughly enjoyed the role , especially the opportunities it gave me to speak with members of the tech community . When moving to Adored , I knew I wanted to make the shift to CEO . While both roles do have some commonalities , there are glaring differences that can make it a difficult transition . But most tech - savvy entrepreneurs are n't shifting roles when they build their startup ; they are deciding whether to be a tech - focused CEO or a business - savvy CTO . If you understand the core responsibilities of each role , you can make sure that you 're providing value to your company . And do n't chase a title -- choose a job that you 're suited for . Here are a few differences to keep in mind . At Dyn , my CEO Jeremy Hitchcock told me that out of all that a CEO does , the role has three main responsibilities : By contrast , a CTO 's roles and responsibilities can take many different forms . While a CEO should always focus on those three core responsibilities , a CTO 's tasks may have more fluidity . For a founding CTO , the role is largely a function of an individual 's personality and strengths , whereas in the case of a non - founding CTO , the role tends to be defined by the industry and the strengths or areas of focus for the rest of the executive team . Taking the differences between CTOs a step further , Werner Vogels from Amazon Web Services wrote a great piece about how there are four different types of CTOs : the Infrastructure Manager , the Technology Visionary & Operations Manager , the External Facing Technologist and the Big Thinker . It 's a great read and he absolutely nails the four types . If you 're starting a new venture and are wondering whether you should be a technical CEO or a business - savvy CTO , ask yourself the following questions : No matter what path you take , however , both roles share certain critical skills . The CEO and CTO will have their differences , but no matter what , the person who takes either role should be a great storyteller who inspires a following , enjoys the thrill of success for their team members more than themselves , and is ruthlessly introspective with a balance of confidence and humility . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .