For most startups looking for a seed round , an audience of at a few thousand early adapters is essential . And those users usually connect through the internet 's version of word - of - mouth : social media . In short , if you 're among the majority of startups that ca n't land a big TechCrunch profile , you 'd better have a good - looking Facebook page . Which is why the recent rumors about the social media giant are troubling . Publishers are seeing huge dips in Facebook page traffic , Digiday reported this week following an admirably open , data - packed blog post from Kurt Gessler , deputy editor for digital news at the Chicago Tribune . The Tribune has grown its Facebook fan page since January while experiencing an inexplicable drop in engagement during the same time period . Other publishers at the Boston Globe and the Religion News Service cited similar trends , but Digiday saved the best report for last : " Brandon Doyle , CEO and founder of Wallaroo Media , a social media consulting firm , said he 's seen declining organic reach in the first quarter across about 20 publishers he tracks . " The truth is unavoidable : For whatever reason , engagement on Facebook is slowing for many publishers around the world . Rather tellingly , the two suggested articles underneath that Digiday article have the headlines " Bleacher Report CEO : Sites with a casual audience are ' dead ' , " and " Alex Skatell : Media is now about loyalists . " While plenty of bugaboos are potentially responsible for Facebook 's latest algorithm tweak -- a video focus , an audience interest in more polarized or politicized news -- one main reason seems the most likely . Facebook already has a massive audience , and is now focused on keeping them engaged by feeding them news posts that have already indicated a high potential for engagement . Facebook 's algorithm will give each post a single chance before burying it in favor of a more engaging post somewhere else . Facebook is prioritizing engagement , which means punishing the majority of posted content . The era of reach is over : The era of niche engagement has begun . A small but committed core audience can power subscription revenue , local events revenue , membership revenue or merchandising revenue . It 's also exactly what a new startup or app needs to prove itself . The one thing it does n't support is an advertising revenue model -- which is the one model most publications today rely on . The truth is that this has been a long time coming : Shares per content item have been dropping since December 2014 . Just last year , I wrote on why 2017 might be the year we finally start seeing less internet content . It 's not that we 're publishing fewer articles . It 's that platforms are realizing it 's in their best interests to surface less of it . Publishers have long held that they value engagement and quality over scalable clickbait . But 2017 may be the first year that they see a true and undeniable incentive to go for quality over quantity . We 'll see a media bloodbath over the next few years , but a new class of high - quality , highly engaged , and likely subscription - focused media publishers will eventually emerge .