Herman Narula , CEO of Improbable . Improbable LONDON -- UK startup Improbable has raised announced a mammoth $ 502 million ( PS390 million ) cash injection from Japanese firm Softbank . CEO Herman Narula says Improbable is determined to stay independent , despite concerns about foreign firms buying out British businesses . The vast funding round is , he told Business Insider , about " sending a signal . " Improbable is developing software for simulating virtual worlds . Simply put , it builds the tools that people can use to run massive simulations -- whether that 's online games or scientific research projects -- meaning its customers can get on with the business of simulating whatever it is they actually want to do . Its $ 502 million investment is , by any measure , massive -- whether for a British or an American technology business . But it 's an order of magnitude larger than all of Improbable 's previous funding rounds put together . Before this , it had raised just $ 50 million ( PS38 million ) in total . Improbable is staying tight - lipped on how much the investment values it at . Narula said only that it gives Softbank a " non - controlling stake . " That is , Softbank owns less than 50% of the company -- valuing it overall at least $ 1 billion ( PS778 million ) . ( He would n't even be drawn on the range or a ballpark figure , saying that he does n't " want to create that distraction of high numbers . " ) Inside Improbable 's offices . Improbable Although Improbable might want to stay independent , there is along list of promising British tech business that have ultimately been bought out by foreign firms . London artificial intelligence lab Deepmind was acquired by Google for PS400 million . Twitter dropped up to $ 150 million ( PS116 million ) to acquire Magic Pony . Chinese travel company Ctrip bought Scottish firm Skyscanner for PS1.4 billion . Softbank is currently doubling down on its investments , and is launching a vast $ 100 billion ( PS77 billion ) tech investment fund ( though , per TechCrunch , the Improbable investment is not coming from it ) . In 2013 , Softbank bought a 51% stake in Finnish gaming company Supercell , before upping it to 73% ( and then subsequently selling it off to Tencent ) . Might Softbank seek to similarly increase its share of Improbable until it has a controlling stake ? " We have absolutely no interest in that kind of deal , " Narula said . " Our goal is to remain independent . The control aspects of this deal were very important to us ... The company is completely founder - controlled , and will remain so . We ca n't realise this vision as an acquisition of anyone . " His position then softened slightly : " It 's also personally important to us to , as long as it is feasible , try to create a significant British platform company , and you know , we think we can do that and that 's not something we want to give up easily . " So would he consider an acquisition offer under any circumstances ? If Google came knocking , perhaps ? " I guess I 'd say it would n't be about cashing out for us . If such a scenario ever made sense it would have to be because we felt it was the only way to realise our vision . " And does he consider the number of British tech businesses selling off to foreign firms an issue ? " I think that 's just harder anywhere . I do n't think that 's something unique to Britain . Trying to scale a company beyond this scale is an enormous challenge ... I do n't think there is an easy policy of structure that 's going to make this kind of thing repeatable . " Improbable COO Peter Lipka , CEO Herman Narula , and CTO Rob Whitehead . ( left - right ) Improbable Founded in 2012 , Improbable 's initial focus was on gaming -- but has since broadened its view to everything from science to defence . In late 2015 , it unveiled SpatialOS , an operating system for simulations , and launched a beta version in February 2017 . The company is currently generating revenue , but its current focus is on growth . This new funding will go towards hiring , as well as developing the tech and R&D. The company currently has 180 employees , and opened a San Francisco office earlier this year . iIt plans to grow both teams , Improbable said . ( Narula and cofounder and CTO Rob Whitehead are British , and based in London . ) " It 's been a journey to get the fundamental technical problems solved , to show a working product ... to see the potential of the market we were exploring , " the CEO said when asked about the rationale for the size of the fundraise . " I guess we 've now reached the point where we want to double down on that . We see a 10 year , 20 year vision for how we can make possible the massive scale simulations that could be so transformative . " And it 's not going to happen overnight , and it 's something that 's going to require deep and continued investment . So this is us thinking of the long - term , wanting to remain independent , and wanting to create something really special . " Even so , Narula does n't rule out raising further cash down the line : " Our goal is to literally alter the way we live and work and that may very well require more capital . " Fundamentally , the exec said , " it 's about sending a signal to the market that we are creating a new space , and we 're building a new ecosystem around us , and that ecosystem is here to stay . "