Cloud platforms are n't an option for businesses , they are a must . I 'd be hard - pressed without one for personal use . But for those who are new to cloud technology , finding the best solution for your startup in the crowded cloud market can be challenging . The good news is , options abound .    The first step is determining if your business should rely on a public or private cloud , or if a hybrid will best suit your needs . Here are some questions to ask to determine the ideal services for your business . What type of data do you need to store ? The information you collect will largely determine the particular cloud service you need . Private clouds are a must for sensitive information , but if there 's no outside value to your data , a public cloud will suffice . What software will be in the cloud ? Depending on your industry and business , your software will need to be stored either in the public or private cloud ; a hybrid could also work . How many people and devices will be connected ? Just like the schoolyard game of " Telephone , " the more people involved , the less secure your " phone conversation " will be . Choose an option that reflects your business size and can scale as you grow . What 's your budget ? There are options for free public cloud services , but first assess the kind of data you would store there . Private cloud services come with a cost , of course , but it 's security you need , it 's worth the investment .   Once you assess your cloud needs , here 's a closer look at your options , along with some pros and cons of each . Public Clouds . These standard offerings provide storage of computer resources , such as applications , that are accessible via the internet . There are some free cloud service options , as well as pay - per - use ones . Public clouds use a shared infrastructure to provide services to multiple clients . They work well for non - sensitive data storage , collaboration , or email . Some examples of public clouds are SaaS ( software as a service ) , IaaS ( infrastructure as a service ) , and PaaS ( platform as a service ) . Pros : Public clouds are flexible and scalable . Cost comes down to use , and location is a non - issue . You can pool high levels of resources with a public cloud , meaning you benefit from larger economies . One big plus for those who are n't cloud - tech savvy : Your business does n't have to manage it . Cons : Staying compliant in certain industries like health care becomes an issue with public clouds , as does security . Public clouds are simply more vulnerable to cyberattacks . Reliability is also a concern for public cloud users . Private clouds do n't function all that differently than public ones , except they use proprietary architecture to distribute services . In other words , instead of serving many clients , a private cloud serves just your company . Private clouds work better for changing business models or unpredictable needs . Gartner sees the private cloud industry growing through 2017 . That 's because they are ideal for tight security demands , uptime needs , and mission - critical workloads . Regulated industries , such as the financial sector and the medical field , require this sort of a secure , separated cloud . Private clouds are scalable . They are also self - service and offer multi - capacity uses . They are crucial for companies that leverage lots of big data . Most important , however , they are more secure as private clouds provide hosted services situated behind a firewall to a limited number of people . The two downsides of private clouds are management and money . Businesses ' own IT teams must manage private clouds . That means having to budget for staffing , maintenance , and capital . Virtualization , cloud software , and management tools are added costs as well . Hybrid Cloud . Just as the name suggests , hybrid clouds offer the best of both worlds . They combine a business ' on - premises private cloud with public cloud services . Companies can shift workloads between their private and public cloud services as their business demands change . For instance , a company may use an on - premises private cloud for sensitive data , and a public cloud , like Google Compute Engine , for less sensitive material . I 'm not alone in my expectations for an expanding hybrid cloud marketplace -- some projections have it growing to $ 91.74 billion by 2021 . As for pros and cons , there is n't much to say on the negative side . For highly changeable workloads , hybrids are the ideal solution . They offer the key to scalable and flexible business solutions .   Startups need cloud service as much as CIOs of established companies . Consider what best suits your needs and budget , and get to work on choosing the one that 's best for you . Remember , it 's a cloud buyer 's market , so do n't rely on only one resource when you decide what you need . Dan Newman is the president of Broadsuite where he works side by side with brands big and small to help them be found , seen and heard in a cluttered digital world . He is also the author of two books , is a business professor and a ...