Australian airline Qantas has partnered with corporate accelerator Slingshot to launch the AVRO Accelerator , a program aimed at commercialising innovative ideas within the travel sector .   Sourcing its name from Qantas ' first ever aircraft , the Avro 504 K , in a tribute to supporting Qantas ' history of aviation industry " firsts " , the AVRO Accelerator will look to guide 10 local and global startups through a 12 week program designed by Slingshot .   Each startup will gain the chance to work alongside Qantas Group 's own portfolio of mentors and inhouse team to develop their ideas , while gaining access to the company 's operation data , technological platforms and customer insights . Selected participants will also receive up to $ 150,000 in funding from the Slingshot Venture Fund to help build out their ideas ; $ 50,000 will be given through the program , with a further $ 100,000 available for follow - on investment . Qantas Group CEO , Alan Joyce , said the accelerator marked an opportunity for the company to continue to shape the travel industry and support its innovation agenda . " We 're proud of our track record as innovators and early adopters and we think there 's much more to come , so we 're asking Australian and international startups to join us as we unearth the next big ideas , " he said . AVRO is aimed at applicants with ideas themed around reforming the travel experience , building connection platforms , streamlining travel processes , and other innovative " breakthroughs " .   " Customer needs keep evolving and the limits of technology are constantly expanding , so there is a clear business imperative for us to find new ways to improve how we operate , " said Joyce . " We 're looking forward to opening up our doors to ideas that are different , challenging and truly innovative . Ideas that could benefit from the expertise and scale at a company like Qantas to refine them and make them a reality . " Karen Lawson , Slingshot 's CEO , said the company is thrilled to partner with Qantas for the accelerator , adding that it reflects a trend of larger corporates looking to startups as a way to innovate within their industry .   " An innovation strategy must include an external approach to tap into an increasing world of disruption and talent . We are seeing a fundamental shift as more corporate boardrooms mature in their understanding of the role startups and scale - ups play in navigating the reinvention of their industry and meeting customer 's changing expectations , " said Lawson . The partnership comes after Slingshot announced it would be expanding into Queensland to support tourism - focused programs in Brisbane and Cairns , having received funding from the Queensland government 's $ 9 million Advance Queensland Industry Accelerators Program .