You can achieve a simultaneously productive and relaxed environment by giving your employees what they want . An office that is simultaneously relaxed and productive ? How does that work ? In the corporate world , we 've long been conditioned to believe that a good work ethic is synonymous with a gritty , grinding style of professionalism , where the optimal results spring from long hours of hard work and discipline . But recently , experience has told us otherwise , as startups embrace mantras like " work smarter , not harder , " as a way of re - engineering productivity . A company like Google , which gives employees gourmet food , endless entertainment and over - the - top perks , is arguably successful because of these policies , not despite them . The model goes a long way in explaining why so many startups have embraced more holistic work cultures , designed to nourish employees to their fullest potential rather than simply demanding more from them . Here are five methods I have found work well at our company , a web and mobile search tool for commercial office space , to promote business growth through a positive , relaxed work culture . This flexible policy invites employees to interact , ask questions and challenge their managers - in a good way . When team members feel comfortable with one another as well as with their superiors , communication is faster , good ideas are less likely to be left on the table , and alternately , red flags are less likely to escape detection . And " open - door " policies are not relegated to more open , transparent work cultures . Successful companies with more traditional organizational structures and cultures employ them successfully as well . Free coffee is always nice , but a fridge full of snacks is even better . About 67 percent of employees who receive free food at work are very happy with their jobs . In addition to the cost benefit for employees , food around the office helps people stay energized and gives them less incentive to eat a heavy lunch that will put them to sleep later on in the afternoon . The same study found that this perk is more important to millennials than to other age group , yet only 16 percent of employees claim they get free snacks at work . That 's easy to fix . Give your employees an interactive canvas , collectively . For us , the canvas is a giant blackboard on the wall where anyone on the team can draw with chalk , write inspiring messages , place Post - it notes and more . While Slack often serves a similar purpose for us , we find the act of physically writing or drawing to be creatively liberating . Since many of us spend so much time behind our screens , it can act as a much - needed distraction , especially an artistic one that will stimulate the mind with new ideas . Finally , it does n't hurt to add a bit of culture to the office by way of paintings or music , as long as it 's not provocative . Even though the office is a professional workplace , your teammates can benefit from getting to know each other on a personal level as well .    Engage your team through periodic happy hours and dinners to show that the relationships you build go well beyond the confines of office walls . You can even try out team - building outings like sporting events , hikes , company - wide retreats and other events . These outings can promote bonding between team members , reduce employee stress and give employees the chance to get to know one another outside of the office . When your colleague is also your friend , it 's that much easier to support them professionally . Our recent survey of 75 New York startups revealed that 94 percent of founders believe office space plays a role in attracting talent . Rightfully so , considering most of us spend a significant part of our days ( and sadly , our lives ) in the office . For your team to be comfortable and productive , choosing an airy space with plenty of natural light can be surprisingly effective . It 's one reason open floor plans are all the rage these days . This type of layout tends to be more visually appealing , friendly , and ultimately yields more fluid , collaborative work . In order for this type of layout to work without creating too many distractions , you 'll need to dedicate a few isolated quiet spaces ( or breakout rooms ) for meetings , calls or just heads - down work . You do n't have to choose productivity over employee well - being and happiness . Instead , you can create an environment that melds perfectly with your mission and team while keeping things efficient and positive . Happy employees are 38 percent more productive than unhappy employees and produce 37 percent greater sales . The implications for employee retention and productivity are significant . In time , you will find an optimal balance between your team 's enjoyment of the workplace and their productivity . You need both for your company to reach its true potential . This article is courtesy of BusinessCollective , featuring thought leadership content by ambitious young entrepreneurs , executives & small business owners .