Despite the country 's small population size of slightly over 1.3 million , Estonia can easily be described as a real startup nation ! The current generation of Estonian entrepreneurs built internationally successful companies like Skype , TransferWise and Pipedrive . Since Estonia is a very tech - savvy and entrepreneurship friendly country , the number of new exciting tech startups is seems to be growing year by year . In the beginning of this year we took a close look at the Estonian startup scene and created a list of 7 promising startups to watch in 2017 . All of the startups we 're mentioning below entered the market within the last two years and each one of them has something special to add to the tech and/or business world in 2017 . SprayPrinter is a smart spray can technology which prints pictures from smartphones to different surfaces . For that , users need a SprayPrinter , the smartphone app and spray cans . The phone tracks movements of the printer and knows when to release paint and when not . It is like a colouring book plus a pencil . SprayPrinter was founded in 2015 and is based in Tartu . The young company did a succesful global crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo which resulted with over 200 pre orders and massive amount of inqueries from retailers , promoters and strategic partners . Shipitwise : Founded in 2015 , Tallinn - based Shipitwise aims to end the hassle to ship unstandardized items overseas as a small business or an individual . In order to do so Shipitwise built a mobile platform and service to help businesses with easy and affordable shipping . Shipitwise claims to be the only international delivery company offering transparent pricing for small - business users . The promising startup already secured about EUR400 K in funding through equity crowdfunding and angel investments . Weps is a chatbot which helps you building a website in two minutes . Founded in 2015 , Weps is one of the first to make something as complex as creating a website be as easy as talking to a friend . By answering simple yes - or - no questions the user gives Weps all the data it needs . In seconds it analyzes thousands of options and creates a website instantly . The young company is headquartered in Tallinn but also successfuly took part in the Berlin - based accelerator program Axel Springer Plug and Play . Palleter was founded in 2015 and connects trucks and nearby freight offers . Thanks to Palleter , Truckers get freight offers relevant to their trips . Shippers get a convenient way to book transport on nearby trucks . The Tartu - based startup Palleter made it into the 2016 class of Techstars Berlin , where it secured seed funding as well as valuable advise and industry contacts . Clanbeat is an ongoing feedback tool for monthly performance reviews , targeted at managers who care . The Tallinn - based startup helps managers to become leaders and employees to discover their full potential through 1-on-1 meeting culture . Among active clients are Transferwise , Volvo , Ericsson and Telia . Before founding Clanbeat , CEO Ragnar Saas co - founded Pipedrive . Clanbeat just secured funding from 500 Startups and plans to relocate to the Silicon Valley . TransferFast enables instant money transfer between banks . No matter the time or day . TransferFast moves your money from bank to bank in just a few moments . The Tallinn - based startup was founded in 2015 and so far secured about EUR155 K in venture capital . TransferFast works particularly well with Nordea Bank , Danske Bank , Swedbank , SEB , Krediidipank and LHV . Barking has created thousands of new parking spots in cities by cross - using already existing parking facilities . Businesses , schools , hotels , apartment buildings etc . can rent out their parking spots on closed areas while they are not using them . Barking connects electric barriers and gates to the cloud and thus provides access to those areas via mobile app . Drivers can now park on those areas by opening barriers via the Barking Mobile App . The Tallinn - based startup was founded in 2015 and secured about EUR240 K in funding . By the way : If you 're a corporate or investor looking for exciting startups in a specific market for a potential investment or acquisition , check out our Startup Sourcing Service !