CompareEuropeGroup , one of Europe 's fastest growing financial management platforms for insurance , banking , and telco products ( such as car insurance , personal loans , credit cards and broadband subscriptions ) , has strengthened its position after closing a EUR20 million Series A funding round . The list of investors includes private equity platform ACE & Company , Pacific Century Group , Nova Founders Capital , SBI Holdings , Mark Pincus ( founder of Zynga ) , Peter Thiel ( founder of Paypal and Facebook investor ) and others . Founded in 2015 by Antonio Gagliardi , Thomas Munk and Mads Faurholt - Jorgensen , CompareEuropeGroup seeks to digitise and automate banking , insurance and telco advisory and brokerage jobs , thereby making personal finance advice unbiased , available around the clock and 100% tailored to the users ' personal needs . Thanks to a strong emphasis on data , machine learning and AI , the London - based company aims to help its users to select and get the best products for them and to manage the product throughout the lifecycle . By doing this , CompareEuropeGroup eliminates inefficiency from manual processes , misaligned incentives and creates much needed transparency for its users , enabling them to select products that best match their needs and risk profile while continuously evaluating and informing them when better products become available . According to the UK - based startup , the service is 100% independent and free for the user . Co - founder and Managing Director , Antonio Gagliardi , explains : " Banking , insurance and telco products are an important part of people 's lives , but they are difficult to understand and despite these products representing the largest part of household costs for most people and the fact that people 's needs constantly change , consumers do not give much thought to them after having acquired one . We have built a platform that looks after users ' banking , insurance and telco products 24/7 to continuously ensure that they have the right products for their needs . Our technology aggregates all relevant information about the financial and telco products and applies proprietary algorithms to evaluate personal questions and understand the users ' risk profiles , needs and how they might develop . " The new funing will be used to continue to improve the user experience by making the process of comparing , getting and managing banking , insurance and telco products easier . As part of this , the startup will further develop its proprietary technology including advancing its big data and machine learning capabilities . In addition , CompareEuropeGroup will continue to grow its team to help support the company 's growth momentum . The FinTech startup already employs over 100 people and is present in five European countries so far - Denmark , Portugal , Finland , Belgium and most recently Norway . The CompareEuropeGroup works with more than 50 banks , insurance and telecom companies across Europe , who are welcoming the opportunity to reach new customers through the platforms .