Do you have a killer idea for a startup company ? Perhaps you 've already got a plan in motion , and you 're getting the initial stages worked out , or have already started implementing strategies and are picking up steam . Either way , you need the right tools to help manage your growth and keep you and your team on task . No matter what your business , here are few things that can help you gain a productivity edge . You 're going to need a project management tool , and Taiga is one of the most interesting open source options in the game . What does Taiga allow you to do ? It takes the Kanban methodology for dividing projects into various developmental stages but streamlines it in a way that is much easier to navigate than some of the more cumbersome options that exist on the market presently . Simple , intuitive , powerful , and customizable , this is one of the easiest ways to break down your work and get your entire team on the same page . Best of all , they have a free option to give you an opportunity to try it out and see if it will work for you and your crew before committing to a paid plan ( with increased functionality ) . Need a way to prepare for meetings in a hurry ? Charlie is the way to go . This personal assistant program " combs through hundreds of sources and automatically sends you a one - pager on everyone you 're going to meet with , before you see them . " Think of it as Cliff 's Notes for people , allowing you to get up to speed and put your best foot forward every time . You 'll be able to make a striking first impression , and , hopefully , wow potential clients , wooing them over to your startup cause . On top of that , it 'll save you the time of having to dig up all that important information yourself . If you need a way to chat with the whole team , whenever , wherever , then Voxer should be on your radar . This chat app , like most , lets you utilize text and photos to communicate but adds a nice twist : live voice chatting . Much like a walkie - talkie , you can buzz in and get your message out to the whole crew instantly . In addition , Voxer includes end - to - end encryption to help keep your chats secure . They have several pricing levels and a basic free service that allows you to try before you commit to a monthly plan . Privacy , convenience , and seamless syncing across devices ; what more could you ask for ? You 're going to have to tame the raging beast that is email . Inky provides a secure way to make it happen and incorporate some quality encryption at the same time . In addition to top - tier email features , slick design , and all the relevant extras , you get high - grade security to protect your company secrets . You can integrate existing email accounts , and , as told by Inky , you can " deploy Inky with custom policies to protect email data when an employee loses a device or leaves the company . " Talk about secure . Let 's face it , getting funding is a concern for any new venture . Crowdfunding has become a viable source of capital for many startups , but choosing the right platform from the myriad that already exists can be something of a chore . If you want to try something a bit different ( but no less functional ) you might give Plumfund a go . Designed by the creators of Honeyfund , this crowdfunding app can be used for just about anything , so have at it .    Wendy Dessler is a super - connector with OutreachMama and Youth Noise NJ who helps businesses find their audience online through outreach , partnerships , and networking .