Gamification has been all the rage in the business world for a few years now . Founders , managers , and everyday entrepreneurs are applying this strategy to everything from customer service to content creation to improve productivity across the board . But while gamification has done wonders for some companies , one startup is going above and beyond to make their model all about games . CodinGame is a French startup that is trying to revolutionize how people hone their coding skills . By providing a wide range of activities in more than 20 programming languages , this company is making it easy to learn how to code . Yes , the activities are typically catered to those that already know the basics , but the opportunity to improve your skills in such a fun way is something coders around the world will absolutely love . " This is not just a gimmick as we have metrics to back our vision . If you mix games with learning , you get a very motivating experience , " said Frederic Desmoulins , cofounder and CEO of CodinGame in an interview with TechCrunch . " Playing and learning at the same time is a virtuous circle . " CodinGame brings together a community of more than 700,000 developers in 175 countries , among which 30 percent of students in 12,000 schools spread over 175 countries . Much like actual games , these activities have a finite number of levels that get increasingly difficult as you complete them . In addition , there is a multiplayer mode that lets you compete with people around the world . And that , says Desmoulins , has no limit . " We target people who already know a bit of programming . But our last exercises are very hard and target hardcore coders , " said Desmoulins in the same interview . " And once you are comfortable with higher levels , you can fight with other players in multiplayer games on the platform , and there is no limit in this mode . " With gamification becoming more popular than ever , CodinGame has tapped into a learning model that could churn out a new generation of skilled coders . The ability to code is integral to the future of technology , and spurring more young people to pick up the mantel with actual games is nothing short of genius . Plus , a little measurable competition can go a long way in creating a workforce that knows what they 're doing .