Amongst all the activity in autonomously driven vehicle joint ventures , new R&D facilities , strategic acquisitions ( such as Mobileye being acquired by Intel ) and booming startup fundings , two big players in the industry , NVIDIA and Bosch , are partnering to develop an AI self - driving car supercomputer . Bosch CEO Dr. Volkmar Denner announced the partnership during his keynote address at Bosch Connected World , in Berlin . " Automated driving makes roads safer , and artificial intelligence is the key to making that happen , " said Denner . " We are making the car smart . We are teaching the car how to maneuver through road traffic by itself . " The Bosch AI car computer   will use NVIDIA AI PX technology , the upcoming AI car superchip , advertised as the world 's first single - chip processor designed to achieve Level-4 autonomous driving ( see ADAS chart ) . The unprecedented level of performance is necessary to handle the massive amount of computation required for the various tasks self - driving vehicles must perform which include running deep neural nets to sense surroundings , understanding the 3D environment , localizing themselves on an HD map , predicting the behavior and position of other objects , as well as computing car dynamics and a safe path forward . Essentially , the NVIDIA platform enables vehicles to be trained on the complexities of driving , operated autonomously and updated over the air with new features and capabilities . And Bosch , which is the one of the world 's largest auto parts makers , has the Tier 1 credentials to mass - produce this AI - enabled supercomputer for a good portion of the auto industry . " Self - driving cars is a challenge that can finally be solved with recent breakthroughs in deep learning and artificial intelligence , " said Jen - Hsun Huang , founder and CEO , NVIDIA . " Using DRIVE PX AI car computer , Bosch will build automotive - grade systems for the mass production of autonomous cars . Together we will realize a future where autonomous vehicles make mobility safe and accessible to all . " Today 's most advanced cars use about half a teraflop of computing power ( a measure of the ability of the computer to calculate 1 trillion floating - point operations per second ) . This will rise to around 50 teraflops in cars equipped with Level 4 self - driving systems ( Level 4 is fully capable of driving the car with no human intervention , but only under specific circumstances . Brake pedal and steering wheel must be present . Most of the Level 4 systems under development depend on highly detailed maps and are thus geofenced , or limited to operating in mapped areas . ) The NVIDIA AI PX chip presently works at 11 teraflops speed but Nvidia plans to improve the chip and increase its speed to handle Level 4 operations . [ Nvidia is also partnering with automakers Audi and Mercedes - Benz . ] " This is the kind of strategic tie - up that lets both partners do what they do best - Nvidia can focus on developing the core AI supercomputing tech , and Bosch can provide relationships and sales operations that offer true scale and reach , " says Darrell Etherington for TechCrunch . < < Return to The Robot Report Frank Tobe is the owner and publisher of The Robot Report and co - founder of ROBO Global which has developed a tracking index for the robotics industry , the ROBO Global(tm ) Robotics & Automation Index . The index of 82 companies in 13 subsectors tracks and captures the entire economic value of this global opportunity in robotics , automation and enabling technologies . Read more > >