Inspiration can come from many places . Whether it 's your family , your coworkers , or the inspirational posters hanging on your wall , there are plenty of sources that promote keeping your eyes on the prizes . For founders building a business , staying motivated and keeping their team focused is incredibly important to breeding success . We asked three female startup founders about how they overcame challenges while building a business and what they use as inspiration to keep moving forward . Ask any early - stage founder and they 'll tell you that they 're constantly playing catch up while managing all the new challenges coming their way . Maura Kolkmeyer , founder and CEO of Sitterly , an app that connects local families with college students babysitters , said her biggest challenge was taking the leap from corporate life to founder , and there hasn't been a boring moment since . " I was building Sitterly on the side while managing high visibility government clients , " said Maura . " I was quickly running out of gas and knew one or both would start to suffer , [ so ] I made the tough decision to quit . It was a challenge to trust myself enough to make that leap . Everyday holds a new challenge [ and ] sometimes it feels like playing whack - a - mole , but every day I reach a new high score !   There is never a dull moment . " Maura 's inspiration stems from her philanthropic nature and encourages founders to find time to help people for the greater good . " Focus on one thing : connecting with and help people , " said Maura . " The world is so noisy and competing for attention . The one thing that cuts through all the b.s . is an authentic desire to help someone and the ability to execute on the promise . You do n't need permission to help people . So stop waiting . " Maxeme Tuchman , CEO of Caribu , an educational platform that allows parents to have story time with their child from any location , had to dissolve her previous venture , a food tech company , back in 2012 after a short run because the timing was n't right . She continued to find inspiration and motivation by maintaining focus on her vision to change the world and create solutions to real - world challenges . " Although the idea was amazing , and people think it 's a novel idea , the timing was not ideal . That summer four other food apps had launched or pivoted and diluted [ the traction ] we needed . We ended up dissolving our company , and sometimes that 's the right answer . Let your gut tell you when that is . If you 're going to fail , fail forward and fail fast , " Maxeme said .   As a woman - of - color , Maxeme has some strong advice to other female founders : ditch any self - doubt , take credit where credit is due , and if you are going to beat yourself up over something , do it in private . " If you exude that lack of confidence , you and others will very quickly believe it , " said Maxeme . " Remind yourself that you 're building for a more inclusive community . Women tend to build for families , other women , and the underserved . Let that fuel your passion and hunger for making your business a resounding success . " Aleda Schaffer , cofounder of PureCarbon , the developers of the smart exercise and tracking Delta Gloves , founded the company with her husband . And while there are many couplepreneurs building great businesses , Aleda knew from the beginning that it could be a potential red flag for investors . Aleda faced the challenge by leaning on their accolades and expertise to overcome the obstacles . " My cofounder is a brilliant man with extensive experience building IoT prototypes for Fortune 100 companies , " said Aleda . " It is a great partnership as our skill sets are highly complimentary to each other . Knowing [ that being a husband and wife team ] could be an issue , we have several slides in our appendix that highlight our work together at a large corporation , our experiences working together over the last 15 years and other companies with couplepreneurs that have been successful and exited . We never try to hide or marriage and see it as a strength . " Aleda 's inner strength stems from growing up in a family of entrepreneurs . Her father had a business that went under and they had to struggle to make it back . Aleda pulls inspiration from this life experience and uses this motivation as her time as an entrepreneur .   " The reality of what can happen as an entrepreneur is not lost on me . There are days where everything clicks and you there are days where you feel like you are dancing with the infamous ' trough of sorrow , ' " Aleda said . Women in the workforce consistently deal with the difference in pay grade , raises and promotions . One of the contributing factors to this problem is that women simply do n't ask for more and that needs to change , Aldea said . Her advice to female founders is simple : remember to ask for what you want and that you are not alone . " There are so many people rooting for you that you have never even met . There are corporations out there rooting for you to succeed - use them as a resource . I was fortunate enough to work on the Innovators Initiative at American Airlines providing travel grants to promising startups and also meeting with many other corporations who are doing the same . As a founder , these are a valuable resource as you are setting up your company , " Aleda said . As a founder you have to learn to roll with the punches , appreciate the little wins and continue to believe in your product . " As a founder , you have to learn how to ride the waves , celebrate the high points , learn from the low points and just keep going . What keeps me motivated is that as a founder these are problems I get to have and I believe in my product , my team and myself enough to keep pushing , " Aleda said . Read about more inspirational moments from founders here on Tech . Co