If we look at the startup landscape in Africa ( and read the press ) it is clear that fintech is one of the fastest growing sectors on the continent . The African Tech Startups Funding Report , released in January by Disrupt Africa found that in 2016 , 29.6% of startup investment in the region went to fintech companies . Read more : Report : African tech startups receive funding boost in 2016 This $ 55-million sum is a clear indication that there is energy and ambition among entrepreneurs and innovators for fintech -- and significant appetite from investors . However , fintech is only part of the picture . The entrepreneurial base has rapidly grown since 2015 - tech startups attracted 16.8% more funding in 2016 than 2015 . The focus on early - stage startups is noticeable when looking at the figures from the Disrupt Africa Report : 146 early - stage companies received a total of $ 129 m in 2016 - more startups sharing the pot with fewer " standout tickets " . Fintech represents low - hanging -- fruit for innovators and investors because many parts of the region are underserved with financial services . We have also seen growth in machine - to - machine innovation in Africa . M2 M refers to direct communication between devices using any communications channel , including wired and wireless . M2 M includes industrial instrumentation . Thanks to application software , M2 M can monitor temperatures and inventories , while in the consumer sector it can help to streamline products that consumers buy and keep them working efficiently . In Africa , M2 M is being used for healthcare services , utilities , conservation and even the mining industry . Ovum 's Africa Market Outlook , " ... believes that the utility sector offers the biggest opportunity among industry verticals in Africa for growth in M2 M connections , particularly for the retail sector ; mainly for payments , which are expected to be more profitable . " The revolution in the telcommunications sector in sub - Saharan Africa is a story that we are already familiar with , particularly with mobile payment solutions . So , does this surge in technological entrepreneurship tell us anything about what is happening at a grassroots level , within communities and society in general ? What we do know is that incubator hubs and region - wide funding initiatives have become significantly more widespread over recent years . There is a highly noticeable effort on the part of governments and private enterprises to raise awareness of entrepreneurship and promote innovation . " Makerspaces " have also come to the fore over the past few years , which provide a wider range of services and facilities than the traditional incubator hub : access to training in business skills , lectures , manufacturing and production facilities , bootcamp - style courses and rapid - growth accelerator hubs . The innovation ecosystem in Africa has done more than grow , it has exploded right across the region . Venture capital ( VC ) funding for startups has also sharply increased in Africa . Data from Crunchbase , TNA Analysis shows that VC funding for technology startups stood at only $ 40.6 m in 2012 . Within two years the figure surged to $ 414 m and is projected to reach around $ 608 m in 2018 . The 2015 book , " The Next Africa " by Aubrey Hruby and Jake Bright also supports this trend . They point out that there are roughly 200 innovation hubs , 3,500 new tech - related ventures and $ 1 billion in venture capital to a pan - African movement of startup entrepreneurs . Fintech is clearly the story of the moment , with major successes such as bitcoin , blockchain and mobile - money solutions . Mobile technology is however also set to grow and provide major opportunities for VC 's and investors . For several years , healthcare programmes have been rolled out using smart technologies . Examples include Nigeria 's Smart programme , which dramatically reduces the turnaround time for infant HIV diagnosis . Notable startups in the sector this year include a low - cost solution for hearing problems , Vela ( a medical referral app ) and a non - invasive malaria testing kit called Matibabu . The entrepreneurial ecosystem is charging ahead in the right direction , creating jobs and wealth . Yet , most important is the fact that so many startups are creating practical , affordable solutions to problems on their own doorsteps : African solutions for African challenges . These solutions are transforming lives in every sphere of society , which makes what is happening in the world of African startups so important . The role that investors play is therefore especially important because there is a direct correlation between capital going in and game - changing innovations coming out . Jean - Claude Bastos de Morais is the founder of the African Innovation Foundation .