Automation has been a major theme within the technology sector in recent months , as attention turns to how it will affect white - collar professionals such as lawyers . However , some are already way ahead of the curve . One such company is RAVN , a startup based in London that works primarily with the legal sector and corporate lawyers . Clients include Berwin Leighton Paisner , Sky and Bloomberg . " The legwork of the legal industry is reading documents , " cofounder Jan Van Hoecke tells Techworld . " This is about automating the reading process . " Its AI software reads , interprets and extracts information from documents , converting unstructured data into structured output more quickly and accurately than any human , the company claims . RAVN 's four founders ( Van Hoecke , Peter Wallqvist , Sjoerd Smeets and Simon Pecovnik ) met while working for another UK tech firm , Autonomy . " The company does n't bear a very great name anymore because of it appearing in the press in quite a bad way , " Van Hoecke admits , referring to HP 's botched PS7 billion acquisition of Autonomy in 2011 . " It was quite innovative when it launched , its first few years and its products - the initial vision was really good , " Van Hoecke says , although by the end " it was not innovating , and we figured we could do it better ourselves . " For the first year and a half the founders were based out of Peter and Simon 's flat . " I was still the earliest one in the office even though they just had to crawl out of bed , " laughs Van Hoecke . RAVN has always been entirely self - funded , and managed to secure success by picking up some impressive initial clients like Bloomberg . " People always say if you keep control , you will never regret it , " Van Hoecke says . " But you might regret taking investors on board . It 's tempting because you know with money you can do a lot of things . But if so many people say this , there might be some truth to it , right ? "   Originally the founders sold consultancy services , but they soon shifted to selling products . RAVN now employs 46 people at its London HQ , plus one office in Amsterdam and another in New York . The main focus was on developing new products for processing unstructured data , which make up the vast majority of most organisations ' data . RAVN worked to improve the ability of software to analyse documents with its product RAVN ACE ( Applied Cognitive Engine ) . The company provides a ' Knowledge Graph ' , which links together information within organisations : by document , team , project and so on . " We trademarked it and Google has in the meantime breached our trademark , so we should probably sue them - but on the other hand that 's probably not going to happen , " Van Hoecke laughs . RAVN also offers enterprise search products , which help to make it easier for people to find specific information within their company . " Documents are not the final entity of information , " he explains . " If you are looking for something - say how to switch on the screensaver of your Mac - you do n't want to go through a 20 page manual . You want to get an answer . " " We have a lot of competitors on the search market , but market is fragmented , " he adds . " Search engine companies stagnated , they were bought off by organisations like IBM and Microsoft and there was very little innovation . There still is , we 're not challenged very often . " The fact RAVN has become a company that focuses on ' AI for lawyers ' was not a deliberate choice , according to Van Hoecke . " We just got into it quite early , and we got quite good at it , " he says . " We got a good reputation as well . " The reason RAVN has been so successful within the legal sector is not so much down to the type of documents involved , but the fact that the people reading them are expensive , and there is a big pressure on lawyers to become cheaper . " They have one of the most old - fashioned ways of working in terms of the automating of their processes , " Van Hoecke says . Another factor is the exponential growth of documents within legal firms . " There are more contracts , they are becoming larger , so that means your legal costs will go up exponentially , which is obviously not feasible , " he adds . Van Hoecke says he does not believe that RAVN 's technology is replacing jobs . " It 's not replacing lawyers , it 's enhancing them , " he says . " I do n't pitch this as an AI lawyer doing things on their own . It 's more a calculator . If you do those computations manually that takes so much time . Likewise you do n't want to read 1,000 contracts . You want to get facts out of it and make your analysis - that 's what you are good at , that 's where your know - how comes in . " Looking ahead to the rest of 2017 , RAVN hopes to embed its reputation as an AI company and broaden its reach beyond legal into sectors like telecoms , finance and insurance . However , like many tech firms , the founders have Brexit - related fears regarding immigration . " I think we employ 16 nationalities . That 's not by design . It 's by circumstance . We have Scandinavian clients , French and Spanish and for that we need native speakers in those languages . I do n't know if we have to worry about our staff leaving . I hope not , " Van Hoecke says . However , he remains upbeat about London 's prospects as a tech hub . " People sometimes ask me ' why did you start it in London ? ' But I think the question should be turned around , " he says . " It 's because of London that we started . It still is one of the best places in Europe to start a tech company and did n't have that overhyped cycle that the Valley has , or the extremely high wages the Valley has . There is a lot of talent and there are a lot of clients . The only negative part is that office space is quite expensive . "