We all love a good challenge , especially ones that showcase seriously groundbreaking health projects . After all , breakthrough technology is what will keep humanity around for a few more years , amirite ? Anyway , technology with the power to give people with disabilities the power to control objects with their minds ; automated breast health monitoring , and a wireless injectable device for connected drug delivery services are among projects in development by eight semifinalists selected for the Accenture Health Tech Innovation Challenge . The challenge brings together leading - edge startups with prominent health and life sciences organizations to tackle some of the world 's greatest health challenges including access , affordability and transparency . The eight semifinalists were chosen from more than 500 applicants by leading industry executives from many of the largest health and life sciences companies in the world . Here 's a break down of who they are and what they do : This startup fills a technological void for patients that are cognitively aware , but unable to move or communicate . Based on the proprietary Brain - Computer Interface technology , it aims to give people with certain disabilities the power to control objects with their minds , allowing them to control a communicator , domestic devices -- think lights , doors , windows , alarms , temperature , bed positions and so on -- wheelchairs , and other assistive technology . A new medical camera that aims to mitigate Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPAA ) privacy risk by providing a visual narrative by putting photos , videos , chat and sensor data directly in the hands of patients and their doctors to better enable more efficient care , communications and collaboration to monitor progress , assess in historical health context and decide on optimal healthcare approach . Cupris has developed smartphone technologies connected to medical devices and a secure software platform to better enable doctors to discuss patient cases remotely and patients to receive diagnoses and advice from doctors without having to see the doctor in person . This can reduce unnecessary and expensive face - to - face consultations in developed countries and extends medical expertise to those living in remote areas in developing countries who might have limited access to care . This business is helping patients get their blood tests carried out in the waiting room at the doctor 's office and even in the emergency room before they see a doctor , enabling their caregiver to receive instant analysis . A project that aims to provide a secure and HIPPA - compliant communication platform for doctors and healthcare providers to use features and tools that help maximize productivity and workflow . The platform employs Mexbot , a chat bot that connects doctors and nurses to hospital data from labs , radiology , and electronic medical records to improve patient care . Noona , This mobile service supports the remote monitoring of cancer patients and real - world data collection to track symptoms and well - being between hospital visits . It provides pharmaceutical companies with patient reported outcomes data during clinical trials that can help with assessing the value of new treatments . An exciting proposition , QuiO has developed a real - time , wireless injection device and cloud platform for connected drug delivery devices , providing connected software for monitoring , engaging and supporting patients taking injectable therapies . UE LifeSciences , Inc. This company designs and develops point - of - care , easy - to - use and affordable cancer detection tools for use in the developing world , It has created the iBreastExam , an FDA - approved , hand - held , battery powered , wireless mHealth solution for early detection of breast lesions for use by public and private health agencies . Anne O'Riordan , senior managing director of Accenture Life Sciences , said , " We 're extremely impressed with the energy and enthusiasm the startups have demonstrated when creating solutions that could disrupt the way traditional care is provided . " It 's exciting to work with the entrepreneurs because , like Accenture , they picture a future where technology solutions not only arm the health industry with far - more - sophisticated , fine - tuned data but also improve the lives of patients and provide better outcomes for healthcare providers . " The final judging round will take place at the StartUp Health Festival in San Francisco on January 9 , 2017 .   