After announcing its goal to build the ' network of the future ' last year , Telstra announced at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona overnight the continuation of its partnership with Ericsson , with the two companies working to launch a Cat - M1 Internet of Things ( IoT ) network throughout Australia . Trials of the network are already underway in Melbourne and Tasmania , where data around leaf wetness , soil moisture , soil temperature , rainfall , solar radiation , and wind speed and direction was collected at Pooley Wines in Richmond . Sierra Wireless , Altair and Bosch are device partners in the Tasmanian trial . Mike Wright , Telstra 's managing director of Networks , said the advantages of Cat - M1 include low cost , low power consumption , deep coverage , and high reliability of transmission . " Cat - M1 can enhance LTE coverage for underground and in - building areas that challenge existing coverage , " he added .   With this , Wright said customers can deploy a range of near real - time applications across logistics , utilities , medicine , transport , mining , agriculture , manufacturing , and other sectors .   Emilio Romero , head of Ericsson Australia and New Zealand , said , " As consumers and enterprises are rapidly embracing the opportunities of IoT , we are enabling the LTE network to be ready for the next phase of user demands . " Telstra will support the operation of Cat - M1 devices and solutions across its 4 G network as they become commercially available . The announcement comes after various towns and cities across Australia have already begun experimenting with IoT networks on their own . Earlier this year Townsville City Council announced a partnership with Campbell Scientific Australia to launch a city - wide IoT network . Using the open standard LoRaWAN protocol and Campbell Scientific 's Altoview IoT platform , the publicly - available network will consist of a number of gateways , with coverage of approximately 1000 km2 . The aim of the project is to enable the community to engage with science ; scientists from James Cook University have begun collaborating with local students to monitor things such as temperature , humidity , and water quality around the city . Meanwhile , Sydney IoT startup Thinxtra last November launched a Partnership Program for Smart Councils , looking to offer 50 local councils around Australia the chance to be connected to the IoT and bring related solutions to their communities . Thinxtra , which raised $ 11 million in a Series A funding round in September , creates IoT solutions and services , and has also been tasked with rolling out the low - powered , wide area network ( LPWAN ) of French IoT company Sigfox around Australia . The IoT network is just on project Telstra and Ericsson are working on ; as well as expanding Telstra 's long haul , metro and regional optical networks , Ericsson , in partnership with Qualcomm , will also be working to prepare Telstra for 5 G , testing the 5 G New Radio ( NR ) specifications being developed by 3GPP .