Declines in the venture capital market are hitting startups of all sizes , but the ones left particularly vulnerable are the thousands of young companies that raised seed funding during headier times just a year or two ago . The seed frenzy peaked in the first quarter of 2015 when more than 1,500 startups raised their first rounds of capital , according to research firm PitchBook Data . Many of those companies are now running out of cash , and most wo n't be able to get more . Dying is a fact of life for most startups , but corporate graveyards are filling more quickly this year . The pain is likely to drag on for another 12 to 18 months as early - stage companies fizzle out earlier than usual or limp along without access to more capital , said Gus Tai , a general partner at Trinity Ventures . " The pressure is even more acute , " he said .   Image :   Bloomberg As many as half of fledgling startups today are looking to sell shares or take on convertible loans at the same price or terms as their previous rounds , said Jim Kim , a partner at Formation 8 who 's raising as much as $ 200 million for a new VC fund called Builders , according to a securities filing . He said such deals were rare a couple years ago when enthusiasm was higher and VCs were willing to pay a premium . " It is a completely different environment now , " Kim said . Despite their recent pullback , American VCs are n't strapped for cash . They 're on track to raise the most money since the 2000-era bubble . The top firms are raising larger funds , which is pushing many to make larger early - stage investments in the hopes of driving returns . Accel Partners , Andreessen Horowitz and Founders Fund have raised funds of more than $ 1 billion each this year . While many other VCs , including Builders , continue to make smaller investments , the big firms are driving up the average investment size in young companies . The median valuation of early rounds involving professional investors has reached $ 15 million , more than any time in the last five years , said Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati , a law firm that advises startups . Exclusive insights in your inbox , from our technology reporters around the world . However , the $ 55.5 billion of venture money spent in the first three quarters of the year fell short of the $ 61.2 billion invested in the same period last year , according to PitchBook . The overall startup market has rebounded in the last couple months but is still down 15 percent from its high last year , according to the Bloomberg U.S. Startups Barometer , an index that tracks VC funding and deals .   Image :   Bloomberg More than 11,000 angel and seed investments were made in 2014 and 2015 , PitchBook said . Since then , the market has become depressed at all levels , but the imbalance in earlier stages , especially the one known as " Series A , " has created intense competition for survival among young companies . The number of companies able to raise their second or third rounds of funding fell 25 percent last quarter compared with the same period in 2014 , PitchBook said . Etai Beck raised a seed round in 2014 for his corporate software company Folloze . He later sold more shares under the same terms , bringing the total size of the round to $ 3.3 million . This year , as he looked for a second round of funding , he found that investors " are way stricter , " with higher expectations for revenue and customers . The company eventually found its way to $ 7.3 million in September . " The new , higher bar is fine for companies that have very recently raised seed capital -- they knew what to expect , " Tim Bliamptis and Judith Elsea , partners at Weathergage Capital , wrote in a blog post in August . " It 's not so fine for previously - seeded companies that had been operating under the old milestone expectations . "   This article originally published at Bloomberg here  