City life needs to be revamped . At least , that 's the vision Eli founder Marcus Li has in mind . It 's the driving force behind the car startup 's new model , the Eli Zero , which debuts this week at the 2017 Consumer Electric Show ( CES ) in Las Vegas . Li compares the startup 's goals to the elevator , which revolutionized city life by making skyscrapers actually livable . Here 's how the company puts it : " Marcus experienced a surprising revelation . He considered that one of the biggest disruptions in the history of architecture was the invention of the elevator . By simplifying and empowering vertical movement , the elevator enabled the development of skyscrapers . Popularization of the elevator led to the transformation of major metropolitan areas like Manhattan , Chicago and London -- areas that would have remained relatively flat and expansive were it not for elevators . " Now Eli wants to do for horizontal city life what the elevator did for vertical city life . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Like our content ? Subscribe now to get articles like this delivered to you weekly .   Now back to your reading ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Cars are still designed after industrial - age values : They 're for travelling long distances at 70 miles per hour . Cities , however , have opposite needs . The Eli Zero is designed to fit the compact spaces available in cities while efficiently travelling the short distances that a city offers . If you 're in a densely populated area , you 'll love it . They 'll fit into the smaller category of a two - tier transportation future : " We envision a future in which low speed and high speed exist on two separate layers . Low speed is central , personal and for most daily engagements with cities , via a free flowing network of small vehicles . High speed systems are for public use to travel longer distances , powered by autonomous car - sharing services . " The specs : Zero 's total weight adds up to a svelte 770 lbs , with a capacity to hold 500 more . It 's a two - seater , and comparison vehicles include the Smart Fortwo and the Renault Twizy . While the Zero officially launches tomorrow , Eli offered Tech . Co a handful of first - look photos , featured here . Tech . Co 's on - the - ground Las Vegas reporting offers you gadget reviews and startup scoops all week , so stay tuned at our CES tag . It 's like you 're there , too ! Sort of . Not really . Hey , you 're getting the best parts .   